VN - 'building and development of e-Government and digital Gov were among the outstanding achievements in admin reform in the first half of this year (year 23) - covered 52 out of the 63 cities and provinces nationwide'
How Do You Say, Follow that Air Taxi in French?? Olympics 2024
Digital transformation in Da Nang city is taking place strongly, with involvement of entire political system, mass organisations, biz and people. Smart City mobile platform deployed, offering over 30 intelligent services and utilities, ranged connectivity and monitoring for ambulance and waste bins
AI in Smart Cities: Balancing Efficiency, Sustainability, and Ethical Challenges
Australia to help Vietnam develop smart cities
Smart cities get smarter with quantum
Building the foundation for smart city development is complex, but the pay off is worth it
Seoul Robotics announces updates to SENSR platform, expanded partnership with City of Chattanooga
Smart Street Lighting: Alleviating Energy Cost Burden
Need Some Help on RMM Network Monitoring Software we Are Developing
Christmas Fun
Microsoft Eclipse Air monitoring system
Research interview request: Smart Cities
Using Unrealenginde in Proptech for simulating human behavior in commercial buildings
Global food supply chain reliant upon "smart" systems at risk from malicious criminals
How AI Can Be Used In Smart Cities: Applications Role & Challenge
No Longer an AV Tech Only, LiDAR Finds Its Niche in Security - News
World's first self-sustainable floating city being developed in Busan
World Health Day 2022, held on April 7. 'WHO will focus global attention on urgent actions needed to keep humans and the planet healthy and foster a movement to create societies focused on well-being.'
Improving emergency response in the era of ADAS vehicles in the Smart City
Any contacts in San Francisco?
Conscientious Urban Technology. An interview with Bryan Boyer, founding Director of the University of Michigan’s new Urban Technology program, on the growing importance of technology in cities, data, architecture and design, feedback loops, generalists, and futures.
Arqit and NEOM develop software capable of defending cognitive cities against cyberattacks
NEOM And Arqit To Collaborate On World’s First Cognitive City Digital Currency
What Will You Discover in IOT and Smart Cities – “Gold Mines” or “Time Bombs”?
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg praises smart city innovation at CES
Surveillance & ethics
UK tech sector enjoys record year after start-ups attract more capital than ever before, 'tech sector's best year since 2014, some £29.4bn was raised by start-ups and scale-ups, according to government's Digital Economy Council.'
Smart Cities & IoT – The Opportunities and Challenges Ahead
Expo 2020: Blueprint For Smart Cities And A Better Life
FAVORSENSE – Building Smart Cities Through The Eyes of the Citizens
Dr. Mazlan Abbas on LinkedIn: Four (4) Reasons for Technology Trial
Tips for Successful Smart Cities Implementation
Warehouse robots are playing a vital role in keeping supply chains from completely toppling
How New York is Becoming a Smart City
Cash-Rich Tech Companies Are Remaking Post-Pandemic Manhattan: 'Google’s takeover of Manhattan’s West Side has been mirrored to varying degrees by Amazon, Microsoft, Apple, Facebook and Salesforce, each of which has established a campus in the city.'
Smart Cities and Cycling infrastructure Technologies
2021 IMD Smart Cities Ranking: ​Taipei (Taiwan) Advances to fourth globally and second place in Asia 'high marks in medical services, safety, transportation, job opportunities, and governance. It also demonstrated strengths in areas such as culture and leisure activities, free public Wifi'
A Critical Take on Smart/Eco/Autonomous Cities
How do we initiate the creation of smart cities?
[#Academic] Survey about Energy Transition 💡
Looking for a postdoctoral Research Fellow in Connected Mobility
Designing sustainable cities: Stanford researchers develop new software for designing sustainable cities
Smart city coordination
Electric transportation project in Savona, Italy
‘Phnom Penh should be a city designed for humans, not cars’
E-bike market is expanding quickly in the United States; half a million were imported in 2020, double from the year before. Thus Congress introduces E-Bike Act, 'bill would offer Americans a refundable tax credit worth 30 percent of a new e-bike’s purchase price, capped at $1,500.'
Solar City? Turning Buildings Into Power Plants. 'For roofing, much of the focus is on solar tiles, sometimes called photovoltaic shingles. These are solar panels that are the size and shape of traditional roof tiles, providing the same structural integrity and weatherproof characteristics'
EVolve NY opens first of many 350kW charging stations that will blanket the state. 'New York has set a highly important goal of 10,000 EV charging stations by the end of 2021 and 850,000 zero emission vehicles by 2025.'
Shell announces Energy transition plan, to add 500,000 electric vehicle charging points by 2025 globally, more than 2.5 million EV charging points by 2030 – for homeowners and businesses and for use on our forecourts.
Engineering Podcast Interview with Metro21 Smart City Institute’s Karen Lightman
Smart cities are only as smart as their cybersecurity protections. 'Cybersecurity should be paramount within any new clean energy initiative. This means taking advantage of platforms that can provide thorough, on-demand testing.'
Clean Cities Coalitions (In the United States): Advancing Affordable, Domestic Transportation Fuels and Technologies Across the Country. 'Together, Clean Cities coalitions and VTO focus on advancing affordable, domestic transportation fuels, energy efficient mobility systems, and other fuel-saving'
Which smart city tech poses the greatest risk for cyber-attacks?
The 15-minute city: « Carlos Moreno makes the case for the "15-minute city," where inhabitants have access to all the services they need to live, learn and thrive within their immediate vicinity -- and shares ideas for making urban areas adapt to humans, not the other way around. »
Ransomware attack on Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City servers managed by Tech Mahindra - ET CISO
Smart City Design Surveys for Class (Parking Meters & Crosswalks)
New York City should take over control of Subways from state, Andrew Yang says
American WH administration aims to eliminate HFC chemical emission from US refrigerators (mostly in Supermarkets, investigators found leaks in 55 percent of them.) 'The Environmental Protection Agency issued a public call last week for companies to report production and import data on HFCs.'
US Bioenergy Technologies Office (BETO) is collaborating with industry to develop next-generation biofuels made from non-food (cellulosic and algae-based) resources. Biodiesel can be blended with petroleum diesel in any percentage, including B100 (pure biodiesel)
Biden commits entire US government vehicle fleet to go electric
WeRides’ Mini Robobus has been launched in China.WeRide’s Robotaxi and expanding the scope of the company’s driverless products and applications.
The Covid-19 Era Sheds Light On Transportation’s Climate Change Impact
Impacts of COVID-19 on transportation: 'Much of the 'new normal' will rest on the assessment of risk by travelers and the lasting impacts of government measures as well as the evaluation of purported 'intelligent' lockdown measures.'
Virgin Hyperloop Unveils Passenger Experience Vision
Africa's Development Dynamics report shows digitalization of economic sectors will kick-start a new growth cycle after COVID-19. "Africa has over 480 million mobile money accounts, more than all other developing regions taken together. Over 640 tech hubs are active across the continent."
EU Green Week: Here’s Europe’s plan to be first carbon-neutral continent.To become the first carbon-neutral continent: that’s the ambitious goal for Europe, laid out in the EU's Green Deal. Here's how it's supposed to work: Source /Euronews
Sensing and Forecasting Crowd Distribution in Smart Cities: Potentials and Approaches
SOM US architects develop a comprehensive urban design strategy "Making Downtown Bakersfield," Central California in the process to define the attributes of a 21st-century community centered on high-speed rail, The plan outlines a strategy to connect the HSR station to the city's historic core and..
US Non-Traditional and Emerging Transportation Technology Council NETT Establishes Two New Working Groups, one on Personal Rapid Transit (PRT) and the other on Advanced and Urban Aerial Mobility (AUAM). 'America needs the Federal government to keep pace with the vision and ingenuity of its people.'
Academic survey on XR technology in cities
Smart bench charges your phone and e-bike while measuring air quality
A Polish city is using Ethereum smart contract for Emergency services to open doors
Smart City Live Conference
Working from home and the future of smart cities
South Korea: Solar panels on highway providing a protected path to cyclists from sun/rain/snow, trafic and noise.
US-based ITEC (Orlando), ATIP & Egypt (Cairo) to develop $20 Billion USD Entertainment district (in EG) with 6 star resorts, world-class theme parks, cultural arts center, planetarium, aviary, museum, rec activities for children, F1 racetrack, and more. It will feature the world's tallest obelisk.
Comcast plans to provide a dozen Wi-Fi hotspots around Detroit by year's end to increase digital access for students, families and adults seeking jobs. Those hotspots, dubbed Lift Zones, will be located at nonprofits providing on-site assistance to students attending school virtually.
Smart Cities Connect 2020: Houston Emphasizes Resilience in Pandemic Solutions
I'd like to share my point of view on how to manage smart cities and hear about yours
Kunak has proven to be among the best sensor-based air quality stations in international evaluations
Inmotion USA launches V11 electric unicycle (solo transportation) with built-in air suspension for smooth, stable ride both on and off-road, 2200W motor, top speed of 31-34 mph. It has a bright head and brake light, allowing riders to be more visible on busy city roads.
FL Dept of Transportation launches more Autonomous shuttles and transit with HART and Beep. 'Passengers will be required to wear a seatbelt and use a face covering when riding the shuttle'
Industry 4.0: How To Turn All Factories Into Smart Factories: 'The global pandemic continues to highlight the need for manufacturers to sense—and even predict disruptions—and to make decisions in real-time.'
Is the Chinese Smart-City Model Viable And Exportable Internationally?
The future of urban lighting in smart cities: LED, Sensor techonology
PhD in smart city related field
Bicycle sales and repairs are skyrocketing, creating shortages and waiting lists (In the US and throughout the world). "We’ve seen a 300% increase (in sales) since the start of the pandemic. People just want to get outside and ride,” said Mike Nittel, owner.
Is there an, ideally free, database of Smart City planners, Community Development Agencies, Downtown Development offices, etc?
Authorities in New Delhi (India) launched an anti-pollution campaign on Monday in an attempt to curb air pollution levels ahead of winter. Kejriwal, said the government will start an anti-dust campaign, reduce smoke caused by agricultural burning and introduce a mobile app..
How IoT is transforming Smart Cities
Virginia, Washington DC and Fairfax (US) deploys Easy Mile Autonomous Shuttle on public roads, with closed campus potential and easy path-setting programming options for public transit. Passengers ride free, Dominion Energy sees the program as a step toward the electrification of transportation.
The production of the first subway car of the high-speed metro line connecting the heart of Turkey's metropolis to the mega Istanbul Airport has been completed and laid on the tracks, the nation’s transport and infrastructure minister said on Sunday.
Seoul in Korea subsidizes energy efficiency upgrades in buildings, encouraging residents and businesses to retrofit their homes and workplaces, mass deploying energy consultants in their city
Transforming the building stock of Amsterdam into nearly zero energy buildings, is quite a task. Many residential buildings in Amsterdam need to be retrofitted. In City-zen the most ambitious ones were granted subsidy.
13 winners of the third annual IDC Smart Cities North America Awards announced. "Winners on this list represent the best and brightest change agents within gov and their successful projects offer a roadmap to others looking to implement effective change and radically transform urban environments.."
Smart City Visions
Smart cities require a balance of privacy and open data
Automated delivery cashes in on pandemic-driven demand
The Impact Of COVID-19 On Future Mobility Solutions
Multilingual IoT Solutions With Localization and Translation
[N] Google’s Sidewalk Labs Walks Away from Toronto Smart City Project
Artificial Intelligence in Rail
Smart cities in China
COVID-19 is writing a new world order
Connectivity is the essential element of IoT
Bus automatic parking save city space for better city life
The World's Most Expensive Cities 2020
Big data analysis: how Big Data helps to develop a metropolis
Smart Buildings – Entering a New Decade
How the Internet of Things is Building Smarter Cities
Physical Stores May Resemble Our Newsfeeds in the Near Future - StreetFight
Smart cities: from utopian dreams to bringing vision to life
List if Events addressed to Smart Cities Development
The road to becoming smart cities is paved with open-platform technologies
Smart cities: dealing with ‘extreme’ data
Council Post: Rethinking Smart Cities As Early Stage AGIs
this is the 'the economist' safe city index' 2019 - what are the key flaws with the methodology?
Research about smart awareness
Securing the world’s critical public services, multiple cities at a time
[Apply by 11/20] Invitation/opportunity for startups to work with government and solve problems
Smart Cities are becoming reality - Cities of The Future and How they affect our lives.
Developed a tool to generate and visualize cities
An evolution of terms used to describe urban planning and computation since the 1960s (half a century!)
what are good sites that are r/papertowns of the future, not the past?
What happens when smart cities open the physical world to cyberattacks?
Ben Van Duppen on Smart Cities and democracy - Babylon's Burning - Diggit Magazine
Quick interview on smartcity open data portals
I vote for more cybersecurity curriculum in the American public school system
Smart City Discords
Smart Cities: From Plastic Pollution to Plastic Roads
What are the leading tech firms working on smart cities?
How will remote work/telecommuting shape cities
Norway unveils energy-positive building showcasing smart city potential
Read about the advantages of IoT powered by decentralized data and how Elk and Streamr are working together to make this a reality.
What are some revolutionary ideas in making a City "Smart"?
Future Cities - who do you think are the key players?
ARTICLE: Saudi Arabia are building a crazy smart city 33 times the size of NYC
Rio, top 50 Smart Cities
How Accessible Smart Cities Will Help Disabled People
A Smart City Is an Accessible City
What are the biggest challenges and who is the right person to talk about this?
Who knows the bloggers who write about smart cities?
Ensuring Energy Efficiency is a part of Smart Cities
What is a smart city, anyway!?
Bernie Sanders Calls For An End To Fossil Fuels | CleanTechnica
Chattanooga's research collaborative among municipal power utility, public hospital and local university wins national recognition in education as UTC expands applied research efforts
... This begs the question, was that the first smart building ever constructed?
What would happen if all cities were smart cities?
Cycle sharing in my city- Pimpri Chinchwad
MIT Media Lab Beyond Smart Cities: Emerging Design and Technology
smart cities 2020
MindShare WorkSpace - Coworking / shared office space in Mississauga, Ontario
Smart city privacy
City project - would like thoughts from smart city folk
I'm a student doing my thesis, please help me get your opinions about Smart Cities.
We need to create cities that inspire and generate high quality living, a healthy community and most importantly a content and happy society
3 reasons why Open Data is Important
Why Smart Cities Should Drop Cellular Networks
Introducing Community Products: making crowdselling your data a reality from any application or gadget
Build smart contract applications based on air quality data from 10,210 global locations for free using Streamr!
The Future of Smart Buildings
Getting started with Streamr? We've got you covered with these easy to follow tutorials!
IoT Solutions for Smart Infrastructure
City of the Future: Singapore – Full Episode | National Geographic [44:25]
Smart Cities & Open Government
Cities for Digital Rights
Advanced Usecases (Technology)
Flood Monitoring Systems in Smart Cities in Virginia - Early Warnings for Water Level Detection
Smart City Discussion
Innovation district brings research identities together in Chattanooga
How 2400 sensors and machine learning models keep Sydney Harbour Bridge spanning the decades
A day in Singapore, Part I: Urban identity
Looking At A Smart City Deployment Model
In a Smart City, How Do We Stop Advertisers From Being King?
Your Smartphone’s Storage Could Help Fuel the Future Smart City
CTIA announces cybersecurity certification for IoT devices
The Sensors That Power Smart Cities Are a Hacker's Dream
OpenLitterMap.com - Open Data on Plastic Pollution with Blockchain Rewards Littercoin., Open Geospatial Data, Software and Standards.
Blockchain Can Help Smart City Investment Reach $158 Billion in 2022
The New Detroit, from 'Motor City' to 'Mobility City'
Cities Will Automate First. We Should Prepare Now.
From BIM to CIM: why building and city information modelling are essential to the development of Smart Cities
Can Blockchain Prevent Smart Cities From Turning on Their Residents?
Keys to understanding Smart Cities
Cisco’s innovation podcast has an episode on smart cities and their platform for data collection, interpretation and application that’s pretty interesting
How Can Cities Succeed in the 21st Century?
Smarter Cities: How hyper-local air pollution monitoring can help
Barcelona is a great example of a Smart City under construction
SkyPod - PLP rethinks the elevator as a vertical Maglev
How Connected Cars Pose a New Threat to Smart Cities
Hackers could engineer traffic jams, by using their cars to lie to smart traffic lights
Centralizing engagement and social innovation in the smart city discourse
Barcelona is leading the fightback against smart city surveillance
an actual discussion about the human side of smart cities on reddit
Smart Cities: Solving Urban Problems Using Technology - Jul 19, 2017
Copenhagen Mastermind Jan Gehl Isn't Sold on Smart Cities
Driverless cars are forcing cities to become smart
Hong Kong is stuck playing catch-up in the global 'smart city' rush
Mozilla provides $280K in funding for cities' gigabit projects
ACLU encourages city-owned public internet to protect net neutrality
Building the smart city: 8 things that matter
There's at least one problem that smart city technology can solve for Copenhagen
Inside Google’s plan to build a smart neighborhood in Toronto
The traffic signals in Washington, DC, can now talk to your car—if it’s an Audi
Smart Cities and Components in the IoT Era
A smarter smart city [Sidewalk Labs]
The Olympics’ 2020 tech sponsors plan to turn Tokyo into a 5G “smart city”
The Inconvenient Truth about Smart Cities
IoT smart city security solution uses video technology
Five IT capabilities to transport smart cities in 2018
Tackling road congestion in a collaborative and connected world
The Road To The Autonomous Age Will Be Paved By Smart Cities
Dallas Group Expands Smart City Programs With AT&T, Toyota
Denver's experimental smart city gets microgrid, Wi-Fi, autonomous shuttles
How you will move around in your city in 2018: Smart cities
First Eugene, OR ‘Fix-it Fair’ hopes to revive ‘let’s-repair-it’ ethic
forget smart cities, I want smart intersections!
Ford and Autonomic are building a smart city cloud platform
In the Middle of Nowhere, Panasonic Builds a Smart City
2017 Smart Cities Report in Asia and Middle East by Nest VC
Forget 'Smart'—We Need 'Context Cities'
3 book recommendations from a Smart City CEO
anyone else taken the future, smart, or responsive cities courses from ETH Zurich via EDX?
Is Moscow Leading the Smart City Charge?
new tech using a real time map to plot social data in cities
6 smart cities ideas from the tech industry
Tampa Demos Connected Vehicle Project in Step to Becoming a Smart City
Bill Gates is funding a smart city in the United States—India’s already trying to build 100
Transforming cities with technology | The Economist
EKOCITY PROYECTO INMOBILIARIO
Blockchain-powered Parking Exchange announced as Finalists in IBM Hackathon
Doing User research on security of smart cities and IoT
Scalable cities and companies
Nvidia picks up Alibaba and Huawei as partners for smart city platform
Smart cities? Tell it like it is, they're surveillance cities
Smartcities / Civic Tech ideation tool project. Participate in less then 5 minutes.
Will Cities Ever Outsmart Rats?
India must rethink infrastructure needs for 100 new 'smart' cities to be sustainable
Navigating the smart cities of the future
A 'Servant plan' instead of 'Master plan'? Whats your opinion? Are 'smart cities' really smart?Lets ask nature/Biomimicry! | Prashant D...
How Smart Cities Can Minimize the Threat of Cyber Attacks
'No place for the poor' in India's Smart Cities, campaigners say
Google plans to 'fix' Toronto by building smart city
Smart Cities? Not until those cyber weaknesses get sorted - Computer Business Review
ISO-Standardized Smart City Platform Architecture and Dashboard
Smart Cities Are Going to Be a Security Nightmare (use Incognito Mode to avoid Paywall)
NYC smart cities conference focuses on tech that empowers citizens
How we design and build a smart city and nation | Cheong Koon Hean | TEDxSingapore - Dec 17, 2015
Looking to build a perfect smart city? Sorry, there’s nothing like it
In the smart city race, we’re betting on transit
The Rise of the Smart City
Smart City Hackathon in Columbus, Ohio - May 5-7
Internet of Things (IoT) Smart Cities: Emerging Standards and Guidance
Dallas Takes Step Closer in Becoming 'Smart City' » Dallas Innovates
AT&T Smart Cities and the Dallas Innovation Alliance Bring New Solutions Focused on Citizen Engagement and the Environment
Our World's Fragile Cities Need a $78 Trillion Boost - Connected, Smart Cities
THE FUTURE OF CITIES presented by Oscar Boyson
In ‘The Future of Cities,’ innovative responses to urban issues
VUCITY: highly accurate interactive city models
The Smartest Cities are Resilient Ones
What We Can Learn from the World’s Top 3 Smart Cities – Startup Grind
GE, Intel, and AT&T Are Putting Cameras and Sensors All Over San Diego - Feb 22, 2017
Want to Build a Smart City? Partnerships Are Key
The Connected City - May 18, 2015
Connected Cities, Productive Cities - Mastercard
SXSW Interactive 2017: Artificial intelligence, smart cities will be major themes this year
How Connected Cities Are A Platform For Innovation
Smart Cities: The Solution To Our Urban Ills?
Earth Day Texas Event Aims to Expand ‘Smart Cities’ to ‘Smart States’ » Dallas Innovates
Take a walk through Intel's smart city concept at MWC 2017
Rural Smart Grid Summit
San Diego Installing 'Smart City' Network with Sensors on 3,200 Streetlights
Smart cities must be people-centered, equitable cities
Smart cities MOOC
How Totem Power will unify smart city tech
Smart Cities: Singapore
Smart cities: Barcelona
Smart Cities: New York
Smart Cities: Montreal
How smart cities are building the future - CNBC
Let’s not demonize driving—just stop subsidizing it
A Vehicle to Infrastructure notification service using FLOSS IoTivity
Qatar’s smartest investment
Bad traffic management not only harms pollution & makes roads unsafe but also costs us $10 BILLION/yr!
EWICON bladeless wind turbine generates electricity using charged water droplets
3 KPIs That States Should Adopt for Automotive Innovation
IBM Watson wants to help streetlights become smarter
Why do we need smart cities?
Futuristic Utility Pole 'Totem': Solar-Battery, WiFi 4G and EV Charging
The growing demand for low cost environmental sensors in smart cities
Solar floating airport with smart city
Cities Seek a Smarter Future - Bloomberg
Unbuilding A City
Silo-Busting Data Analytics Help Mass. Cities Tackle Vacant Properties
How to create a Smart City, a case study in Dallas
Are Smart Cities just a Utopian Fantasy?
Has anyone read any good scientific papers/journals on Smart Cities?
Singapore Is Taking the ‘Smart City’ to a Whole New Level
Singapore [Smartcity]
Waze App add Smart Parking data via INRIX
The real story on how citizens and businesses are driving smart cities
Smart cities, big data & their consequences
Smart city webinar - how can we achieve smart, connected cities?
What motivates developers to create smart city solutions? Help us find out!
The Metrics for Smart Cities: an online introductory course
14 cities trying to be smart
Civic technology and the cities of our future
"Internet of Sewers" to be implemented in Australian cities.
Venice: Get Smart or Die Trying
Are smart citizens getting lost in the rush to build smart cities?
Parliamentary Committee Want Mandatory BIM for Big Infrastructure
How Astute are Smart Cities: are legacy governance structures able to produce the results smart cities promise?
Making City Planning Childs' Play - Cocreation Using 3D Models and GIS Data in Minecraft
The 4 Types of Cities and How to Prepare Them for the Future
The experimental city - The Long and Short
This UK city is using 'smart' lamp posts to improve travel and living conditions
Atlanta City launches smart cities initiative for cleaner living
Level39's Cognicity Hub to help develop smart cities
Will India’s experiment with smart cities tackle poverty – or make it worse?
Smart City - security overlooked?
London is testing a new adaptive-traffic control system that detects cyclists and adjusts traffic lights using sensor data
Building the innovation hub in Stockholm
Role of Citizens in India’s Smart Cities Challenge
Amsterdam uses the crowd to power its smart city
The world’s urban population is growing – so how can cities plan for migrants?
What is 'citizensourcing'?
Can cities really run like startups?
How Connectivity is Changing the World, The world continues to evolve, are you ready for it?
Ciudades Inteligentes necesitan enfoques más holísticos
Plan director Ciudades Inteligentes. (I) Del mito a lo práctico.
Citizen Participation for the Digital Age
As Dog Days of Summer End, Cities Pick Up Pace Fighting Poop
Connected Cities, Part 4: IoT Innovation in Action
Smart Cities Online
21st Century Carsharing For Sustainable Cities
Building the Connected City of the Future
Smart Cities Hackathon 2.0
Investment Potential of Smart Cities in India - Market Research Report
Smart Cities are the next phase in the 21st Century surveillance grid
Valós idejű parkolási adatokat az autósoknak! Olvasd el az első cikket rólunk, és ismerd meg a projektet!
An interview with the author of Smart Cities, Dr. Anthony Townsend
Three design techniques for future smart cities
Wired UK: The Cognicity Challenge
10 smart cities that are actually smart
How Feira de Santana became a Smart City
Apply for the 'Sustainable Buildings' startup accelerator
'Integrated Transportation' startup accelerator
Urbanising technology for Smart cities.Howlong do you believe before smart cities pick up pace? And how long before almost all of earth's population lives in smart cities?
Next smart city technologies?
How Open WiFi Can Make a City Smarter
Walkability In Cities: while designing new cities a rule of 400 meters was introduced – major objects should be reached in 5 minute walk
Another Smart Cities blog
Smart City/Open-Big Data IRC channels?
Smart City Companies and Competitors
Are Smart Cities Really Smart?
Has anyone read this book? Is it worth purchasing?
If You Haven't Yet Heard of Public Sector MASC Networks, Chances Are You Will
Smart cities: are you willing to trade privacy for efficiency? [X-post /r/privacy]
Cities of the Future: Songdo, South Korea - Episode 1 - YouTube
The San Francisco Mayor’s Office of Civic Innovation
Smart Cities Blogs
IBM & Ogilvy France Create Ads With A New Purpose in its latest "People For Smarter Cities"
Globally, almost 50,000 people move from rural to urban areas every day
The life and death of cities: John Rossant, New Cities Foundation
Glasgow will be UK's first 'smart city'
Digital transformation in Da Nang city is taking place strongly, with involvement of entire political system, mass organisations, biz and people. Smart City mobile platform deployed, offering over 30 intelligent services and utilities, ranged connectivity and monitoring for ambulance and waste bins
How to claim back rights and sovereignty
How New York is Becoming a Smart City
FL Dept of Transportation launches more Autonomous shuttles and transit with HART and Beep. 'Passengers will be required to wear a seatbelt and use a face covering when riding the shuttle'
Smart Cities are Using Technology to Become Smarter. Help by giving your opinion.
[Smart Mobility] The General Theory of Walkability
[Smart Mobility] Heated sidewalks for winter cities
[Smart Living] Vertical farming
(Smart Environment) Sidewalks
Microsoft HoloLens - New Abilities on your Work Desk
SUEZ SMART management of networks
(Smart Environment) Self-powered gym
(Smart Environment/Everything) How AR can help a city
(Smart Environment) Crowdsourced city maps for wheelchair accessibility
(Smart Economy) Brandpunt Breda
(Smart Governance) e-Democracy in Nigeria
(Smart Living) Smart Compliance - Smart carbon monoxide detector
(Smart Living) Broadway Boulevard
(Smart people) Citizen-led air pollution reduction in cities
(Smart people) Sharing city Seoul
(SMART Mobility) Cameras and machine learning for traffic counting
(SMART Mobility) Kalaranna SmartStreet
(Smart Living) Container houses
IOT in agriculture (smart living)
(SMART People) Discover what people are sharing in your neighborhood and this all for free
(SMART People) Online platform for reporting, view, or discuss local problems in combination with the municipalities
(Smart People) Smart Education in a Smart City
New Subreddit Banner!
(Smart Living) Indoor gardens/food production)
[Smart Logistics] Smart warehouse
[Smart Logistics & Smart Mobility] Carbon tax.
(Smart Economy) Amazon Go
(Smart Mobility) - PASMO card usage in people's daily life in Japan
(Smart Economy) How Blockchain will accelerate business performance and power the smart economy
(Smart living) Smart meter
(Smart Mobility) - How Japan re-invent and combines travelling with other activities through e-Money Cards: PASMO
SharedSpace
(Smart Living) Energy generating window
(Smart People) PetaJakarta: A flood map that crowdsources citizen flood reports from Twitter.
(Smart People) DesirePath
Do big cities like New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles have a future?
Land and Liberty to Build: On Georgism and YIMBYism
Multipurpose paths for pedestrians and bikes are kind of useless and an excuse of the government “increasing bike friendliness”
Would rent control be beneficial in this case?
Ontario Greenbelt swaps
Electric scooters for bike unfriendly places?
Can you create a community around the concepts of "The Blue Zone?"
Milwaukee?
Which is faster to build? An apartment building? Or detached houses (totalling a similar quantity of units)?
Does anyone regret getting into urban planning because of how depressing it is?
Texas Central and Amtrak Seek to Explore High-Speed Rail Service Opportunities between Dallas and Houston
How changing the rules on stairways could help California build more homes
List of urban planning, bike, walk, scoot, drive blogs/orgs in your town?
Urbanist Reading List
Do urban planning recruiters in NYC exist?
Any books on the history of cities/urban planning in Germany/Austria in English?
Literature about Conflict Between Non-Profit Community Groups
Lahaina, in Maui (Hawai'i) has been completely destroyed by fire, any opportunity for improvement?
The Paradox of Sustainable Architecture: Durability and Transience
What job role actually makes a difference in urban planning?
The Anti-California: How Montana performed a housing miracle
ADU Sizes and SFR Zoning
Honestly, are trees along a bike lane really a good idea?
what does it take for US zoning to be fixed to allow for denser mixed use developments?
Public transportation in cities is not the solution
America, take note: New Zealand has figured out a simple way to bring down home prices
A Discussion about Poverty, Preservation, and Rebuilding in Urban Planning
City-designing software?
3 job rejections in the last 4-5 months.
What If We Had a 15-Minute City for Friendship? | Living close to friends matters. Amid a loneliness epidemic, a popular urban planning concept offers a vision for proximity
Precious time is being wasted
Oscar Newman’s “Defensible Space” (1974)
In the US, why are baseball stadiums so much better integrated into cities than football stadiums?
Is there any good car-centric planning literature?
How would pets (dogs, cats, guinea pigs, etc.) get time outside without personal lawns?
Transportation certificates/ qualifications
What causes walkable cities to sprawl?
Why is transit the same speed as walking sometimes?
CNN Frontpage: The invisible laws that led to America’s housing crisis
I've recently become the city planner and need advice on how best to respond to and guide the comprehensive plan update for a small city with no other planners
Does anybody know what I'm thinking of?
Austin is copying Houston's playbook for making housing more affordable
Roundabout on a troubled intersection
I’m an attorney looking to get into urban planning. Is getting a job at HUD a good start?
What are the best examples of old streetcar suburb (node) reactivation/revitalization in the US?
Meet the 21-year-old YouTuber Sharath Mahendran taking on Sydney’s bad planning
Seeking input on potential job offers - transportation vs. development review
Local municiple electrical grid
Advice for regional planner moving into city planning?
Difference between working as a planner in a rural/agricultural area vs. a large metropolis?
A Colorado city put a cap on new housing – and proved why it doesn’t work | The experiences of cities in California and Colorado suggest that growth caps don’t work to make cost of living more affordable – but other mechanisms can
Is it time to let the private sector take over high speed rail endeavors in the US?
This California city is building a place for people to ‘emotionally experience’ S.F. So far, it’s a hit.
Advocating for zoning reform as a nonplanner.
Have you done a city planning internship that provided housing/ a housing stipend?
One Week to Submit Proposals for Downtown SF Renewal and Urban Sustainability
Bricks vs conventional roads
Should cities allow manufactured (mobile home or modular) multiplexes on all lots by right?
Looking for readings on the gap between perceived versus actual rates of crime/interpersonal violence in cities
I have an interview and test for a Planner Technician job tomorrow. Can someone help
AirBNB issue
Majority of Americans prefer a community with big houses, even if local amenities are farther away
Boston (Allston/Brighton) Bus Route 57 street redesign
Vietnam's Public Security impressed with Japan’s performance in reducing traffic accidents, wishes to boost cooperation in this area
BicycleDutch: Utrecht's redesigned ring road
Just graduated, but I don’t want a planning job yet, is that okay?
This L.A. developer aims to tear down homes to build apartments where the city doesn't want them
Bi-Monthly Education and Career Advice Thread
The Piscataquis Village Project: a fascinating but failed attempt to create a traditional village in rural Maine
The absence of mid-rise homes in the United States
Mixed Housing Types in Suburban Areas
Monthly r/UrbanPlanning Open Thread
Transit Oriented Development for Healthcare
Cities promise housing – and then make new rules that prevent it
First internship - what to expect?
Urbanism for non-Tourists
Should we bother to save rural America?
Could having a town road reassigned as a county road open up funding/opportunities for bike and pedestrian improvements along the entire corridor?
Designing Urban Places that Don't Suck
A pedestrian-friendly Kensington Market? (Toronto) Here’s why not everyone is on board
Fighting for Anthony: The Struggle to Save Portland, Oregon. The city has long grappled with street homelessness and a shortage of housing. Now fentanyl has turned a perennial problem into a deadly crisis and a challenge to the city’s progressive identity.
PlaceWorks
When people are displaced, how far are they displaced?
Why isn’t mixed-use development more common like in older neighbourhoods?
How can multicultural awareness be better incorporated into urban planning decisions?
California Residential Land Planning Lot Split Second Opinion
Study reveals link between neighborhood environments and likelihood of metabolic syndrome
Everybody Wins with Congestion Pricing
What is/was your experience working on TOD projects?
New research: "Condo development does not lead to gentrification," but gentrification may lead to condo development — and restricting condos may speed up gentrification (podcast interview)
How Feasible Is It to Turn Office Buildings Into Apartments?
Data Set for Racial Demographics for all US Cities 40k Population +
From New Towns to new countries: the overlooked history of masterplanning Arabia
Environmental Review of Development // What are the downstream effects of "luxury rental" towers?
Why does Los Angeles have such a bad reputation for poor urban planning, when there are plenty of worse US cities out there?
Bike Boulevards in Rust Belt forgotten neighborhoods
Worried about lack of jobs
What are your favorite walkable cities outside the core 8?
Do you think it would be easier to be an urban planner in liberal cities?
What do you need to run a hybrid public meeting?
Typical Street Grid Configurations for Chicago’s Residential Subdivisions/Quarter-Sections
Is there a metric for measuring city boundaries by travel times to CBD?
Which US municipalities are doing the best planning work, today?
Urban transportation planning in India
List of North American Urban Areas by Population Density
Is there any data on how attitudes towards urban planning in America have changed?
How Vertical Gardens and Sustainable Architecture Transform Urban Landscapes - Daoox
Could somebody explain to me the controversy around self-storage facilities?
New to Planning, first day coming soon
What are some trends in Urban Planning & Housing we should keep an eye on?
The "Density without Delight" phenomenon is a problem for sustainable densification. Here's an example from Finland.
Planning for Difference
If not Urban Planning, then what?
An Alternative to Finance Capital in Development:
Is there such a data that tracks how many cars are on highways?
Culdesac overall cost
Is L.A. improving on land use?
Better sharrows?
Warehousing Cities
Occupational Employment and Wages, Urban and Regional Planners
What country is the best model for urban planning in developing nations?
The Wrong-Apartment Problem
Anyone have any information on the planning of Downtown Gettysburg, PA.
Urban Planning salaries suck and I regret my career choice.
Switching from general land use to transportation planning?
Urbanists and city planners: Are sci-fi-type arcologies a good idea?
Transportation Engineer Tries to Solve America's Worst Bottleneck | WSJ Pro Perfected
I watched a major city’s homeless problem vanish. We could do the same
Is the "American Dream" incompatible with good land-use and transportation planning?
Hawaii Gov Declares State of Emergency over Housing Crisis
Austin city council passed resolutions to legalize 3 homes on every lot by-right and lower minimum lot size to 2500sqft
Is connecting neighborhoods with more through roads a good answer to reducing traffic on stroads?
I’m a architecture student where should I go abroad to see mixed use housing and other “middle” housing
Here’s what it would take to remodel empty offices into residential buildings
The gap between statistical population density and perceived crowding
How to make our cities less lonely places
You can have both heritage protection and more housing - A discussion of Heritage and adaptive reuse to increase housing.
Spots to Check Out in Quebec City/Montreal?
Looking for interview advice
[Question] What could I do to get my place of work to promote better urban planning within our city?
Orienting in a city when walking and biking
Incorporating activism into the profession
What do you think of NotJustBikes
Geometry and 15 Minute Cities
Interview questions - can I write them down?
AI has enormous potential, but we should parse how to use it carefully, right?
Should "urban planner/transit planner" be an elected office?
A city in MI with 3 non resident Planning Commission Members?
A Perfect Storm: How the deadly 2022 Durban floods hold crucial lessons for the future of the city and others like it
Policy & Ordinance Job Question
Hostile Architecture Policies
Urban heat island effect vs Zoning Regulations
Best way to do parking reform?
How Empty Offices Become Apartments In The U.S.
What is stopping planners from creating the sustainable areas we want?
What code do HUD manufactured homes fail to qualify in typical non-Manufactured Housing zoning districts?
Does transit really help with commute times?
Approval Delays Linked with Lower Housing Affordability
What can cities do to encourage housing development without encouraging suburban sprawl?
how do you make non-grid, car-centric suburbs more walkable?
As a planner, how have you helped society so far?
does anyone know the process of becoming an urban planner in quebec? (ontario to quebec)
Urban Planning links to crime
What's the future of CBD's with increasing rent and housing costs?
Which countries have the most American style suburbia?
Just attended the Esri 2023 User Conference — anyone know if any sessions were eligible for AICP CM credits?
How can urban planners help solve the problem of de facto school segregation?
Transportation planning work in Belgium or the Netherlands
Pierce Transit’s Plan for Pacific Avenue Bus Rapid Transit Project Collapses
Bi-Monthly Education and Career Advice Thread
Sideways townhouse block
Dallas Will Map 'Urban Heat Islands' to Help Residents Deal With High Temps
Going for a second interview for my first planning job (planning tech 2), any advice?
Why are big box stores so often surrounded by a fence?
Layperson-friendly textbooks on urban planning?
LTS 2 and 3 infrastructure really only for 5-7% of pop.?
Substation Privacy Fence Richland County SC USA
Advice for engineer looking to get into urban planning?
Buffalo, Erie County join forces to inject $23 million into construction of affordable housing
Which are the most walkable cities (not from a western perspective)?
Could the Missing Middle Solve the Housing Crisis? | Victoria, BC, is making an ambitious move to densify neighbourhoods. It could be a model for the rest of the country
Do you think skyscrapers are a good idea for cities?
U.S. Building More Apartments Than It Has In Decades, But Not For the Poor: Report
New York YIMBY’s 2023 Q2 Report Counts 16,202 Residential And Hotel Unit Filings, A 77 Percent Increase Over Previous Quarter
Eau Claire,WI vs La Crosse, WI: Which city is better designed?
Other than cost, are there any benefits to elevated railways over underground stations?
Is it possible to fix Americas car dependency?
Repairing the Roads That Were Built to Divide
The Best Designed Suburb in America
The Ground Is Deforming, and Buildings Aren’t Ready | First study to quantify effects of subsurface climate change on civil infrastructure
2023’s Best & Worst Places to Rent in America
Why can't America Still Build Cities & Infrastructure in a Reasonable Time Frame?
Help me find photos and sources to present to the town council in favor of pedestrian infrastructure!
New at code writing... Does everyone borrow code or no?
Checked Out: How LA Failed to Stop Landlords From Turning Low-Cost Housing Into Tourist Hotels
US DOT ‘Equity Plan’ Ignores the Inequitable Impacts of Highway Expansions
Underground climate change is weakening infrastructure in slow motion
Can compact public transport handle the daily fluctuations in demand without becoming exorbitantly expensive?
Planner Retention
How Come We're Not Building Cities in a Data-Driven Manner Yet?
Streets named for what they give you a view of?
How should I go about trying to get lights installed at a public basketball court?
Why are houses being built?
Volunteering Opportunities?
Potential for work travelling as a Planner
Lost Planner
Builders say cost of regulations can put affordable homes out of reach
How can I gain experience or be involved in planning/planning adjacent skills?
Self-driving I-94 lanes could connect Ann Arbor and Detroit
Is there data for walking?
How to design uphill areas without car-dependency?
Amherst, NY Releases New 171 Acre Central Park Master Plan
Should county encourage incorporation
If building more highway lanes doesn't work to alleviate traffic. Then why do we keep doing it?
TOD initiatives
Are parks, playgrounds, and schools next to freeways/highways or other heavily trafficked roads something that is especially common in America, or does it happen frequently elsewhere?
As a planner, where would be your ideal city to live or work in the US?
why do americans fail at urban parks?
How did Australia become car dependent?
Best urban planning books or resources?
I don’t know if the offer I was presented with is good or not lol can you help me plz?
Small But Mighty: Electric Bicycles Can Bridge Gap in Access to Transportation
What is your preferred density?
Is Bogotá a Better Model for Transportation Reform than the Green Capitals of Europe?
As Downtowns Struggle, Businesses Learn to Love Bike Lanes
What is a "Perfect Urban City"
When a city is building new bicycle infrastructure, who decides where it goes and what it looks like?
Were Soviet city block (micro districts or however they were called) design was at least partially designed the way they were with military utility in mind?
Atlantic City projects
LEED Green Associate or CNU-A?
Ontario Greenbelt development plan faces new threat from federal government | Globalnews.ca
An idea for a revolution in urban transport: seeking feedback and support
A Different Approach to Zoning Reform
Feelings on Industry vs Roads
How to get involved in the congressional Renters Caucus?
Why aren't detached accessory dwelling units more popular?
How to get involved with the local NYC urbanist or transit, community?
Which Internship should I choose?
Tips for writing proposals?
False dichotomies in urban planning discussions.
What is the difficulty of developing a private consulting business?
Commuters prefer origin to destination transfers: comparison of American vs French system design and its consequences
Do ring roads/highways increase emissions if through traffic is restricted in the city center?
US cities with walkable neighborhoods that go under the radar?
American Cities Have a Conversion Problem, and It’s Not Just Offices
What if the free market chose between parking and transit?
My experience
What might American cities look like if they had expanded, improved and invested in the public transit systems that existed before they were gutted, and cities were tuned for cars?
Follow up by the new planner that posted about my new job/mental health issues...
Bi-Monthly Education and Career Advice Thread
Zoning won’t create walkable suburbs on its own. But one great block might.
Focus on NA?
Planners: how much vacation time do you get?
I was wondering how viable travel trailer parking garages in cities were tourism and airbnb are banned?
How do cities turn the tide against urban sprawl?
How bad of a look is it to leave a job 2-3 years in?
What was the historical reasoning behind FAR Maximums?
Relationship of a city's pop. as % of overall metro area and income
What if there were a city where urban planners reigned supreme?
Why traffic congestion occurs in historical cities, why road expansion doesn't solve the problem, and what can truly help: a mathematician's perspective (that's me).
Bus Lanes to LaGuardia Airport Will Cost $500 Million And Nobody Seems to Know Why
Houses and high-rises (and nothing in between): why land zoning hasn't been effective for improving urban density
100 years of urban sprawl — Is this your city’s future or can planners turn the tide? -Deseret News
First urban planning internship interview advice?
Walkable Cities vs Extreme Heat?
Timber vs normal tax?
How do citizens tell town leaders what they want?
What’s the “Sweet Spot” For Building Housing Inexpensively?
Adding road capacity is fruitless, another study finds | State Smart Transportation Initiative
Would golf courses be considered urban sprawl?
Does anyone know what happened to the Berlin car-free initiative?
Internship advice?
What are some tips for me to critique how well planned a city is?
AIC Experience Assessment-Using the entirety of my experience?
the root of the problem is preferences: Americans prefer to live in larger lots even if it means amenities are not in walking distance
The Uniquely American Epidemic of Traffic Deaths
Raised crosswalks and protected bike lanes help calm traffic, but here's some evidence that the construction projects necessary to build those things might also help reduce crashes.
Smart Growth and Transportation | US EPA
DFW & ATX: What city would you work for?
/u/bosscpa offers perspective on why it's so difficult to build new construction in Vancouver, BC
Precipitation estimates that planners use to design infrastructure are decades out of date because of climate change
Career prospects
UK planners - anyone know of any refresher courses?
Can you spare a few minutes to help Duluth MN? Thank you!
What type of government is better for cities? Strong mayor, or strong council?
Why haven't more cities adopted the SmartCode?
Built environment newsletters?
Octagonal street grid eliminates need for stoplights/signs
Deinstitutionalization, suburbanization and car dependency
Interview: Lessons learned from redeveloping an apartment building with expiring affordability restrictions into a community land trust with permanent affordability — and some of the barriers to scaling up
Congestion Pricing Plan in New York City Clears Final Federal Hurdle
Can you become a planner without a degree or licencing in the US?
Tips for the Job Search
U.S. pedestrian deaths reach a 40-year high
Why Britain doesn’t build
Why cities want to ban new drive-thrus
Road Widening Proposal in SE PA
What are areas like this called (look in comments)
help me create a transit map
Unions? If any?
What's with this rural subdivision in the middle of Colorado Springs?
Experienced planners: how long did it take before you were decently good at your job?
WisDOT proposes removing I-794 in downtown Milwaukee, among a group of 9 alternatives
Facing Brutal Heat, the Texas Electric Grid Has a New Ally: ‌Solar Power
Can you achieve the same benefits as HSR by simply streamlining airport security?
what is the job prospect like for a graduate school dropout?
Flexible adjacent zoning to build the missing middle?
Did anyone use their degree for something else?
Data Visualization to show positives of a accessible city.
Can a town board in NY override the planning board?
Cleveland Ohio considering options for their abandoned second level bridge across Detroit Ave.
If you were a mayor and could take one aspect of planning from a city and apply it to your own city, what would you copy and why?
Google gets go-ahead to build a huge new neighborhood by Bay Area HQ
Gentrification
How are parks designed and updated?
triangular grids, hexagons, pentagons?
How to reconcile these two positions, and does anyone else agree?
A rebuttal to Not Just Bike's latest video regarding size
NJ Gov and Admin: New York City must do Environmental (economic) review on the Congestion Toll plan, a full Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), 'this additional review is necessary to address impacts' including wasteful tolls on commercial, logistics (deliveries) and commuters
Should the Midwest be building infrastructure to accommodate climate refugees *right now*?
The CYCLOPS junction. What do we think?
Aspiring urban planner chews into use of city property for outdoor dining
Guidance to Help Local Agencies Address Deferred Maintenance
For 100 Years, Low-Income Americans Overpay on Property Taxes, While the Richest Underpay
Pegasus Trail: An Urban Playscape For The City by 100architects
Resources on Transit Fare Structures?
I want a career change.. course of action?
What entry level jobs are available for someone wanting to break into the industry?
To the planners in America, was the AICP worth it?
How do you stay up to date with planning news?
Customized pedestrian signal in Queretaro, Mexico
The Bridge that Collapsed
America's hidden urban laboratory: the South
In Branson, Missouri, affordable housing is far from downtown, so the city offers scooters with no money down
Finally got the job I wanted out of grad school, now I have debilitating anxiety. Really need some advice.
How might a city most accurately measure it’s WFH/remote population?
Geologist turned Planner
No car, no problem: Philly is one of the best U.S. cities to live in without a personal vehicle
Do I need formal urban planning education if I want to pass the AICP exam ?
Local First Nations unveil taller, denser vision for Jericho Lands development - Vancouver
Is there a planning term for...
Why doesn't the UK have more urbanists?
Is "brain drain" a symptom of bad urban planning?
Developers taking forever to build houses in my city
Conflicting evidence on beltways/ring roads
The Plan to Save New York From the Next Sandy Will Ruin the Waterfront. It Doesn’t Have To.
Walkability/Density in Hot Climates
Why does Australia still building new urban motorways, unlike Europe, Canada, and Some US Cities?
Sydney housing: Chris Minns to turbocharge density with affordable housing bonuses for developers
City manager route?
Is it okay for an urban planner to comment or speak on issues as a private citizen?
Imagine designing for feet
How stable is Urban Planning as a future career
Why isn't there more multi-story retail in the USA
Fellow planners, do you use AI in your work?
Can states provide additional funding for Section 8 housing choice vouchers?
To fellow left-urbanists, I'm skeptical that increasing housing supply through zoning policy is a solution to the housing crisis worthy of the amount we focus on it compared to other solutions.
City Planners that went County?
What do urban planners think of major cities turning streets into pedestrian streets?
Maximizing potential of Multires development from a Form based zoning perspective?
Kinda not on topic and weird but is it possible to work with or around planners without having any education.
Is an upgrade from a BRT to LRT or higher capacity rail a reasonable path?
Concept: Pre-booked bus charter service for low density areas
How do I get data on where people travel to?
Thoughts on subterranean infrastructure and urban development
Very high population density can be achieved without high rises! And it makes for better residential neighborhoods.
How to fix a stroad 30km out
BART’s new budget: Fare and parking increases with a $93 million deficit looming
Where does Urban planning meet economic (business) development?
Does being a Transit Planner really suck?
What can I do to help urban planning?
How to prepare for my Planning Tech 1 interview?
Do E-Bikes Have a Future in the US?
Planning job with no urban planning education but experience in project management?
Best ways to estimate seasonal population?
New Planning job!
Need Clarification of wording on job posting related to Planning Association / Planning Institute
Why Not Land Area Tax Instead Of Land Value Tax?
Burnham Plan for Manila help
Ignoring the cost of obtaining or building ROW, what is the difference in the cost of laying track - Metrorail vs. Light Rail?
Digital twins
Is it really possible to make North American cities less car-centric despite densification?
The Next Crisis Will Start With Empty Office Buildings | Commercial real estate is losing value fast
Improving Pedestrian Safety
What would the most major obstacles be? Are there common concerns for re-tracking right-of-ways?
Does "investment/upzoning without displacement" really exist?
What are the WORST transit agencies?
Tips for attempting to transition from wealth management to urban planning
Interesting Thought on Pushback to Various Expansion Projects (At least in the US)
Is light rail a 'magnificent' opportunity? These community groups don't think so
Study on Danish population found that living in dense inner-city areas did not carry the highest depression risks, rather the highest risk was among sprawling suburbs, and the lowest was among multistory buildings with open space in the vicinity
Strategies for Influencing parking behavior WITHOUT the use of paid parking?
Does anybody know good examples of pedestrian streets that also have a bike lane running through them?
Why Paris will no longer grow beyond 37 m in height
Is This the Suburbs? First Impressions of Gatineau’s Agora Development
Alternative Pollution
Where should Dallas's high speed rail station be?
Can downtown densification rescue Cleveland?
Rail operators’ report calls Madison Square Garden ‘not compatible’ with Penn Station, Report comes as arena owners seek new operating permit - Trains Magazine Newswire
Disabled Riders and the need for public transportation [Bart] to stay alive.
Please read. How to make a change in my town
E-Books/Kindle on inner-city urban design or planning
What People Misunderstand About NIMBYs | Asking a neighborhood or municipality to bear the responsibility for a housing crisis is asking for failure
Ailing transit agencies to keep pandemic funding in debt ceiling deal
After watching The Wire: could the incentive structures within transportation departments be a significant factor in road construction/expansion?
Credentials or Experience with NEPA
Moving away from pricey metros vs moving to outer rings
How to design protected bike lanes to account for emergency vehicles?
Books on Madrid urban planning - need recommendations!
From steel to sugar: revitalizing former Bethlehem Steel buildings in Lackawanna, NY
[Detroit] Mayor Duggan Unveils Sweeping New Tax Proposal at Mackinac Policy Conference [46:47]
Commuters Ditched Public Transit for Work From Home. Now There’s a Crisis.
Arizona Limits Construction Around Phoenix as Its Water Supply Dwindles
How much does a comp plan amendment and land use code amendment for a rural county typically cost to work on?
Why does no other municipality use the same style of traffic lights as NYC?
Richmond, Virginia scraps parking space rules to curb transportation emissions
Anyone with me at CNU in Charlotte?
Urban planning body cut off trees entirely from a boulevard.
Construction Time Again: The quality crisis in American building
Does rail transit have a significant effect on car usage, or does it mainly siphon off bus users?
Why do people act like Vienna is perfect?
Here’s why it feels like your neighbourhood is getting louder
Planning interventions for asylum seekers
The Hillcrest Puzzle: Is there an urban planning solution to this problem?
air transportation
A shift to coastal shipping and rail could cut NZ’s freight transport emissions
The Hidden Climate Success in Minnesota’s New Transportation Law
Derailed again, the decades-long quest for a Melbourne airport train feels like a mirage.
What does it mean to be a great urban planner?
How come not that many women nor POC seem to be into urban planning?
Lessons from a Renter's Utopia [long article on Vienna's public housing program]
The Surprising Controversy Over Downtown Density & Affordable Housing
Why does Australian urban design mirror North American as opposed to European urban design?
What exactly is a “capillary web” street design?
Rather than ‘monofunctional’ business districts or urban playgrounds, American downtown districts could become multipurpose neighborhoods.
Best planned cities around the world that aren't Spanish, Dutch or Japanese?
What do you like best about where you work?
Are there examples of highway cap parks that aren't built on lowered highways?
What's your /r/Urbanplanning unpopular opinion?
Who can afford America’s perfect neighborhood?
How would US cities and urban planning look like if the civil rights act of 1964 was never passed?
Public transit vs cars in terms of noise levels?
The Housing Treadmill
As Cobb County (Atlanta) prepares transit plans for 2024, opponents push back
Detroit looks to adopt city-wide land value tax
Chicago Alderman introduces three new ordinances including lowering some speed limits and opening ADUs
Where can i find more detailed consensus info?
Help with LUC factors from ITE 11th edition?
The Parking Reform That Could Transform Manhattan
Why have cities gotten so ugly?
the biggest interview fail in the history of human existence
Why Jared Polis’ land-use bill imploded on the final day of Colorado’s legislative session
Does anyone know any high school urban planning competitions?
Are there any jobs where it would be applicable/usefull to have a Major in CompSci + a Minor in urban planning?
Resume Templates for Urban Planning Career
Downtown LA’s Office Distress Shows the Pain Coming for Cities
Tips getting first Planning job with the City/County?
Reality Check: Is stoping at red lights now optional in your USA city or state?
A Two-Sentence Subdivision Ordinance
AICP Fees and Employers
Where do city parks usually get their trees from?
Cheaper alternative to cobblestone roads, other to beautify a dead downtown area?
What would you say the percentage breakdown is for planners working for the government/public sector vs. the private sector?
What do you think is a good transit solution for small to medium sized cities in North America?
Walking and Transit Friendly State DOTs?
Lessons From a Renters’ Utopia
What is the history of modern-day automobile congestion? Was this foreseen in the post-war era?
Planners in the State Department, specifically Foreign Service Officers? USA
Detroit overthrown by Memphis as nation's largest majority African American city as population loss continues
Discussion: A Sustainable Approach to Solving Illegal and Unauthorized Street Vendors
Suggestions for books or articles about urban regeneration
Empty Canadian offices fill 89 Rogers Centres – and it’s a chance to reimagine downtown
It’s not just about bringing workers back to the office: 10 indicators of a downtown resurgence
Noise Is All around Us—and It’s Affecting You More than You Think | During the pandemic, our noise levels dropped and the world changed. Should we fight for more quiet?
The Solution to the Affordable Housing Problem That No One Wants to Discuss
Nashville loses battle over sidewalk ordinance at Sixth Circuit
I started grad school for planning because I wanted to improve the US. After one semester, I'm thinking about leaving instead.
This may be a dumb question: What's the difference between 15-minute cities & smart cities?
Interview advice?
BioRHYTHM - Biophilic public sculpture in Melbourne, Australia
cover letter help: who to address it to?
"Country Roads" versus State Highways + Stroads in suburb and rural areas
Insurance companies, and how they can make housing artificially scarce
Bipartisan lawmaker group introduces new affordable housing bill
‘Granny flats’ play surprising role in easing California’s housing woes
Book recommendation on the importance of public spaces?
london based urban planning podcasts?
Contracted bus operators, who work for TransDev, are striking in my city. How common is it to contract out transit workers in the first place?
City Beautiful’s opinion on retrofitting US suburbs
Which city has done a better job with densification and overall urban design, Amsterdam or Tokyo?
Silly question but be honest … how many of you grew up play theSims games (OG or newer gen) or something alike (building legos cities also count as a yes 😂)
Chicago/Midwest job market
What major US cities have been able to relatively keep up with housing demand?
What percentage of a city should be dedicated to housing?
WaPo: Opinion | The model city for transforming downtowns? It’s in Canada.
Accessible Civil Engineering Books for Planning
Would people participate in a anonymous salary thread like they have going in civil engineering?
Urban planners, what can city officials and planners do to prevent grifts like this?
Millions ditched cars for bikes during the pandemic. These cities want the habit to stick
How do you guys track residential vacancy rates?
Any successful piezoelectric roads in/around your cities?
Detroit mayor calls Census Bureau "complete national clown show" as the city's population dips
Challenging Gentrification Discourse: "ProudGentrifer" project - A Satirical Critique
Do you think the shift from modernism to new urbanism somehow reflected political ideological change?
How much down time do you have at work?
Anyone familiar with the urban planning of Mitte in Berlin post WW2
For St. Louis Leaders, One Day Without a Car Showed Region's Challenges
Why shouldn't the US use pigmented asphalt for bikeways?
What’s the difference between a SFR with an ADU and a Duplex?
Disney—Amid War With DeSantis—Kills $1 Billion Florida Complex
I’m an aspiring urban planner.
Americans Have Become Less Willing to Explore Their Own Cities
Question: What's a good side hustle for an Urban Planner?
New York City May Be Sinking Under the Weight of Its Skyscrapers
What businesses tend to be the most successful in small towns?
New Federal Planner Qs
Boston’s Beloved Triple-Deckers Are Next-Level Affordable Housing
Question: Are walkable cities the end all be all?
Need Some Career Advice (Long Winded)
Ideal housing
Why California's High Speed Rail Is Taking So Long
Let's build towards a circular economy: Buildings that offer flexibility allow future generations to reuse, restore, and adapt it for other uses.
Surveying Businesses about Customers
Planner for your Hometown?
Getting into Urban Planning- Hard Skills?
Junior Planner/Grants Specialist in Norristown, PA
Using and Abusing America's Zoning Laws
[urban agroforestry] Small-scale silvopasture: Addressing urban and peri-urban livestock challenges in the United States with agroforestry practices
Starting to plan a Paediatric Hospital. Can anyone provide with some tips and thumb rules?
Campaign launched opposing Brad Bradford's possible run for Mayor (previous planner and current Councillor
Continuing part time job post grad
How can I (regular guy) help take my city to the next level?
Best certifications for a project manager wanting to enter urban planning?
Skateboarding was a Crime: An Urban History of Skate Bans and Skate Stoppers [14:42]
Climate/Environmental Planning Jobs near Boston
Coastal Cities Priced Out Low-Wage Workers. Now College Graduates Are Leaving, Too.
How to give a town community and strengthen local buisness?
Thoughts on the town King Charles Built?
Would it be accurate to say that small and medium sized provincial Western European cities have a greater supply of studios and bedrooms under $1000/€1000 than small/medium sized US cities?
Modern Streetcars: Waste of Money or City-Building Miracle? -CityNerd
How safe are Dutch junctions regarding turns?
Montreal - The North America Urban Design Capital
Why not codify the "good" aspects of zoning laws as general ordinances, and then eliminate zoning?
What's a good counter-argument to the "America is too large for public transit to work" argument?
Advice for starting an internship?
Densification & Complexity in land ownership
Good housing option that isn't apartments?
That Time Detroit Almost Expanded Transit—And How It Still Could
Malls aren’t dead
How to get an interstate removed from your city (United States)?
New research finds small, mid-size Illinois cities have higher per-capita gun homicide rates than Chicago | Cities such as Champaign, Rockford and Peoria have seen homicide rates per 100,000 residents surge in recent years, close to or surpassing Chicago’s levels
How can cities become more pleasant places to live? | DW Documentary (about green transport in big cities)
What's preventing government from taking a more active role in planning?
Density and longer commutes.
How do restrictive covenants play into lane use by-laws?
Underground bike routes
Washington state Democrats are tackling the housing crisis
How long does it take to prep for the AICP?
Toronto approves multiplexes city-wide
Anyone work 4 days a week and have Friday off?
Why buses can’t get wheelchair users to most areas of cities | Study in Columbus finds lack of sidewalks hampers mobility
Must have urban planning, transport planning and spatial planning books
University jobs broadly related to planning?
Why does it seem like suburban homes with large plots of land are only common in the United States?
When is community engagement beneficial to the process?
Planning Interview Questions
Is it better to push for urban planning reform at the state level rather than local level in the US?
The hidden force that shapes everything around us: Parking
Planning + international humanitarian/development mix
A deep dive into the history of city planning in San José, CA
Why do local county gov allow unchecked growth?
Do new-build houses take longer to construct in Europe on average, when compared to North America?
Great Urbanism — a gallery of examples of great urban design features
Why is NYC urbanism/transit not considered great by international standards? What does it need to improve upon?
How to create neighbourhood edges which are welcoming (opposed to a gated community)
Minimising car usage/dependence in hotter tropical climates
Last week review for AICP exam?
Urban planning is my current fixation. Help me feed it.
Can bricks be used for industrialised housing?
A long shot: Portuguese planners/people Help me graduate
Do vehicular cycling advocates engage in the self-selection and survivorship biases?
15 Minute Cities Must Be Built On Social Equity
Career advice for someone hoping to work as Planning Enforcement Officer?
Any good books on mid-century urban design/planning?
Local Urban Planner files suit against Wauwatosa, Wisconsin for illegally approving storage units on planned affordable housing site, then denying appeals
How is the future job outlook?
Small-Minded, Corrupt, and Exclusionary | How zoning broke the Los Angeles City Council
Metro System of the Largest European City
The double standard too many transit advocates fall for
The Hague introduces €50 flat fee for parking to deter drivers | Scheme on certain streets including near beach makes it as costly to park for 10 minutes as for whole day
Planning and Design Startup
Biden administration green lights nation’s first congestion pricing plan for New York
Town addicted to parking renevue
‘World’s coolest neighbourhood’ threatened by Danish ghetto law | Government accused of racism for forcing sale of social housing in Copenhagen’s Mjølnerparken estate
ChatPDF (ChatGPT API based document reader) and Zoning Codes
Copenhagen study on bike lane safety
Why did Kids Stop Walking to School?
Best resources for career development
The Foolish Change Cities Are Making to Buses
Transitioning from other industries without a planning degree
Is “job shadowing” a thing in Urban Planning?
Street design in Phuket
How is it even possible Austin's light rail costs so much? From very rough calculations, it looks like it'll cost from $500-$900 million/mile, for a STREET LEVEL light rail system. Where does that money even go?
Congress funds new 'YIMBY' grants for zoning reform
Constraints on City and Neighborhood Growth: The Central Role of Housing Supply
The Atlantic: Red States Need Blue Cities
Hiring a Planning Director
City Council of The City of Austin initiates amendments to City Code Title 25 (Land Development) to eliminate minimum off-street motor vehicle parking requirements in the City
Do denser, more compact cities lead to higher air pollution exposure?
King Charles III's 'Make Britain Great Again' village — Poundbury mixes progressive city building with an aesthetic steeped in nostalgia for an idealized past.
Are things turning around for some suburbs?
Resources for understanding how costs of multistory mixed use buildings and structure materials are decided? Trying to understand the feasibility of advocating for building 7-8 story mixed use buildings and whether that is economically feasible lately. [VA/USA]
How to affect change in an extremely car-dependent area
Is there a walkable, well planned American city?
Is it possible? Highway overpasses converted into transit and/or pedestrian/cycling overpasses
What is a public policy that you can't shut up about?
Who works for an MPO or a regional planning agency?
A small city rebuilds downtown with a focus on urbanism
Montana Passes YIMBY Wishlist
Is 1.5 lanes per direction enough for an arterial road?
Where to find individuals with Land Use/Planner experience for hire?
AICP Pilot Program
UK Home Buyers Thwarted by System That Can’t Build Enough Houses
Tipping the Scales on Mass Timber: As the industry around innovations in wood building evolves, two questions emerge during the seventh annual International Mass Timber Conference in Portland, Ore.
I just moved to this town but its amazing to see it come back to life again after decades of neglect. Hoping to be involved in the transformation myself!
The city beyond Amazon's 'Great Return'
I'll Take Housing Without the Side of Habitat Destruction, Thanks!
Design Revealed for Central Valley High Speed Rail Stations - San Francisco YIMBY
School district planning/site selection and walkability
First time interviewing for a private consulting firm — what to expect and ask?
Anticipating New MUTCD (Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices) Changes
Top 5 countries in need of urban planners
Analysis: Minnesotans Would Save up to $91 Billion from Climate-Smart Transportation
Polis’ land use bill aimed to blunt climate change. Conservation groups say watering it down is a ‘huge disappointment’
what do you call a public decorative built feature in a city?
Electric BRT vs Light Rail/Trams
Civil Engineer (6 years design experience in private sector) applying for dream job as Transit Planner (public sector). Application advice for breaking into the industry, despite not having a masters in planning?
Millions snap up new Germany-wide public transit ticket
Is a former golf course a greenfield?
Urban planning: the need to include women perspectives
A vacant lot at the heart of Chicago for the last 20 years
The validity of vehicle distance travelled per area as a congestion metric
Road widenings at intersections rather than mid block - effective?
Why Car Parking Is A Struggling Industry In The U.S.
What is the worst urban residential architecture in your city?
Sometimes I see comments in here and really wonder what the deal is with American urbanists/planners
How many places in the US are subject to zoning at multiple different levels?
D.C. Council weighs pausing K Street project to add free bus service
How has Modernism Hurt/Helped Urban Development?
What's a bear minimum density for a frequent bus service?
Myths about converting offices into housing—and what can really revitalize downtowns
urban planning nyc recs?
Cornerstores - a solution for retrofitting suburbia to reduce car trips?
The Messy Reality of Elon Musk’s Space City | SpaceX’s explosive launch covered a Texas town in grime. It’s the latest dustup in the company’s unneighborly saga
An American Planner in Porto (original title: Are Amazing Cities Being Overrun By Tourism? Porto As Cautionary Tale)
State Park development
Great argument in favor of density/variety & against single-family-zoning I hadn't heard before
Chronicling of the Collapse of Public Transit in the US - Bloomberg
City of Toronto multiplex study report recommends policy and zoning changes to permit more housing options city-wide
Demand For Brightline So High That It Just Earned A South Segment Profit: ‘Never Really Intended’
Fellow US Citizens: What’s it like going to city council meetings that discuss urban planning? If anyone has been to one, how did it go?
Is anyone here familiar with the Sanrizuka Struggle?
Book club for Order without Design by Alain Bertaud
User experience in subway vs elevated metro
New ‘Luxury’ Apartments Are Good, Actually
What US city would be a good candidate for becoming like tokyo?
Australia becoming a station nation
Outdoor Dining in LA.
are there any careers in urban planning that pay 150-200k+?
The largest urban parks in the world, ranked by acreage
This building in Hangzhou, China, is home to over 10,000 people
Transit oriented suburbs?
What are the perks of having a tram instead of a dedicated bus line?
City of Richmond, Virginia repeals parking minimums
Return of the Corner Store in Minneapolis? Planning Commission Approves First Land Use Rezoning Plan Since 1999
Major land-use bill from Colorado governor, Democrats will likely be gutted to remove all upzoning requirements
Confused about job salary and experience, halp
‘We made a nuisance of ourselves’: how Citizens House created real affordable housing – for ever! | After years of campaigning, 11 homes have been built as London’s first community land trust – protected in value from the volatile property market. We meet the people who made it happen
The Incredible Shrinking Transit Plan
Culver City's Innovative Mobility Pilot Is Scaled Down By Council Majority
Employment at major planning firms
Levels of Planners?
Best way to track multiple long range projects
Research/empirical data on FBC vs Euclidian ???
3 weeks enough to study for and pass AICP exam?
Bicycling Facilities, Crash Types & Bicyclist Risk
What can/should a small city in the US spend $7 million on?
Despite cities being built for humans, other species also co-exist with us. Scientists believe the urban microorganisms gathered in city beehives can be crucial to improve the wellbeing of humans and bees living in cities.
Fellow Urban Planners - Need advice on a career pivot within planning...
Life as a Transit Planner
How would you transform a small city?
Walkability and crime?
Are removable curb bump-outs feasible?
Moving into a planner role from the real estate industry, do you folks have any suggestions, rips or tools to succeed?
When is density good, and when is it harmful to cities?
Austin Preparing To End Parking Mandates Citywide in 2023
3 km long bike tunnel, Bergen Norway (Cost: 30M USD)
Figured it could be cool to regularly post upcoming Transit Oriented Developments we come across. Here's one I read about today: The Grand at Baldwin, a 215-unit mixed use development in the works across from Baldwin LIRR station
A Deep Dive on Canmore, Canada's Award-Winning Protected Intersection
Interview: When home values (and housing wealth) decline moderately, people tend to delay retirement or even return to the workforce after retiring, but they don't retire earlier when home values go *up* faster than expected—and more research on the housing wealth-labor market connection.
Why the high rise hate?
Is sidewalk riding safer because of cyclist behaviour?
Big City Urban Planning for Mid and Small-sized Cities
Job Opening in Scranton for City Planner
A Plan to Force More Housing Development in New York Has Failed | Gov. Kathy Hochul’s plan for addressing the state’s housing shortage met resistance in places like Westchester County and Long Island.
Accommodating left turn traffic with a median busway?
Why do HOAs have so much power? How HOAs and condo boards took over housing.
Disney announces groundbreaking for affordable housing in Florida
California Isn’t Special: No one wants “California-style” housing prices. But the state’s policies are not unique.
What does the future look like for car lovers?
New Evidence Links Transit Cuts With Poverty and Unemployment | Governing
Richmond Poised to Repeal Parking Minimums
An In-City Growth Cap Is Climate Arson
How Singapore's neighbourhood streets got so car-centric
Pop Urbanism has ruined how we perceive Rural
What do you call these kinds of areas?
Who is responsible for making the houses more expensive in certain communities when they begin to beautify it?
Denver codifying legal tent villages for homeless
How Corporate Consolidation is Killing Ski Towns - Wendover Productions
How can cities deal with melting ice on sidewalks and roads while miminizing damage to soil, waterways and metal from salt?
Think Globally, Build Like Hell Locally | How can we decarbonize the economy when we can’t even build housing?
England Planning Resources?
One Obvious Solution for Homelessness?
Freeways Without Futures 2023
What is the point of large setback restrictions on side yards on a corner lot?
Is Induced Demand a myth?
YIMBY’s 2023 Q1 Report Tallies 9,138 Residential and Hotel Units Filed From January Through March in New York City
Low-cost, high-quality public transportation will serve the public better than free rides
A historical parking lot demolished in Vancouver
Can it get better than Amsterdam?
The city hall wants to make an unprotected bike lane on the busiest roundabout
Why don't cities develop their own land?
Difficulty finding internships
Best free or esri software for student site planning project?
How are trams different from and/or a better option than other forms of public transit/street cars?
What are some positives about the suburbs and suburban sprawl?
Builders Remedy in Davis California - Might Override Mandatory Ballot Measure Law
I need your help in creating an open-source Liveable Cities Score
Redevelopment plans for Foothills Mall in Fort Collins, CO include "re-wilding" and addressing permeability of the site.
How to define city boundaries?
Collegno, Italy - Piazza Paradiso mall - Mixed use example
Ski towns could be exempted from controversial land-use bill as Democrats try to clear path
How to solve right & left turn conflicts between cyclists and cars
Peak urban residential development in my opinion, is attached 3-8 story buildings with no parking spaces
Pricing Street Parking: A Politically Feasible Approach
Do cities depend too much on rising property values? How can Land Value Taxes help?
What is the next North American city to get a light rail/street car?
Density & Housing with a family
How NIMBYs weaponize historic districts - City Beautiful
(Austin) Planning Commission moves to create new zoning category to allow more housing
14 great pedestrianised squares, designed to re-humanise the public space
Road Diet Case Studies?
Where can my bachelors of planning take me if I don’t want to be a planner.
Let's talk about impact noise, one of the most stressful noises to deal with in an apartment
Designing curbside bus lanes to minimize right turn conflict?
Would a minor in geography, specifically GIS, be helpful in finding a job in urban planning?
Skyscraper Proposed for 2700 Sloat Boulevard in Outer Sunset, San Francisco
Vertical Neighborhoods: Zoning or Structural Issues?
Public Facing Planning Online
Why don't we hear about Australian Cities and their urban planning?
WA Senate passes bill allowing duplexes, fourplexes in single-family zones
Specializing and working on affordable housing for minorities in the US
San Jose names city economics expert as new downtown-specific manager | New city official will focus solely on downtown San Jose, fulfilling Mayor Matt Mahan promise
Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers Is Right: Minneapolis Has a Public Bathroom Problem - Racket
How Tokyo Became an Anti-Car Paradise
I wish we could hire mayors from other cities.
Volunteer opportunities
Urban Planning major, should I take a landscape planner job for experience?
Just got an interview for a planning intern position in a small US city. Tips for the interview?
Max Buildout?
(U.S. Infrastructure) Why not focus more on replacing trucking with freight rail?
Our homes are killing the planet. Here's how we can fix them. (TL;DW below)
The US needs your help: Sign this petition to remove Interstates from US cities - cities are for people not for cars!
From Italy to Netherlands: is it possible?
About to graduate, feeling very lost and hopeless going into job applications
Transport Modelling - How To Get Experience? Sadboi Abroad
Getting foot into planning door from an outside field.
Why don't we see more single family ATTACHED housing?
How to best prepare for interview for permitting position?
Zoning Changes Have Small Impact on Housing Supply
Pedestrian and Cyclist Counts from Machine Learning Software
Home Owners Associations - Last Week Tonight w John Oliver
Study Shows Involuntary Displacement of People Experiencing Homelessness May Cause Significant Spikes in Mortality, Overdoses and Hospitalizations
Complex globalized supply chains are often blamed for pandemic shortages. A recent modeling study suggests complex supply chains may actually protect urban centers from shortages under stress.
Why Do Rich People Love Quiet?
House Hoarders
Examples of failed forms of placemaking
Cars and convenience
Shout it from the rooftops: the noise pollution in towns and cities is killing us | The din of Britain’s conurbations affects poorer people disproportionately, blighting lives in cheaply built homes
Pedestrian controlled lights versus HAWKs?
Anyone know examples of neighborhoods that has been gentrified since the pandemic? I know there are many but I need to find a case study to use it.
Conversation with an Engineer, by r/Strongtowns from 12 years ago
Lawyering to Urban Planning?
Question about how much demand you need for passenger rail
How Bad do you consider urban planning in Mexico?
Comprehensive literature review of zoning changes (pdf pre-print — check out figure 1 for graphical summary)
What if I wish for a detached house but also a walkable cities?
Optima Street Layout?
Working abroad as a planner?
How do Atlanta, Charlotte, and Nashville compare/contrast in terms of urban planning?
Interview: It's been difficult for researchers to establish a solid link between gentrification and displacement. A new study categorizes US metros into eight "clusters" and shows that the impacts of gentrification vary significantly by metro area characteristics.
Why has Pre-fab/Modular Housing and 3D printed Housing not taken off in Mainland Europe until just recently?
How to find yearly transportation grants?
How To Approach County Approved Development That Locals Didn’t Have A Say In
Denver voters reject plan to let developer convert its private golf course into thousands of homes
Planners, how stressful is your job? Does the public abuse you?
Does urban planning or GIS have a better future outlook for jobs?
An Enormous Responsibility: The Misunderstood and Essential Work of Landscape Architects
Free to Build: How to solve America’s housing crisis
NJ Lane Filtering Bill Introduced! A step in the right direction for reducing cars/traffic congestion on our streets!
Best Tools of the Trade?
Would a greenfield car-free city be an effective workaround for car-centricity?
Recommendations for books about "meanwhile spaces"?
Planning Job Opportunities Through GIS - Career Pivot
Study: Traffic Cameras Reduce Speeding, Crashes
Subterranean Sydney: A cross-section of Town Hall Station made with iPhone LiDAR
Houston creates program to designate conservation districts, aimed at stopping gentrification
What are your thoughts on rickshaws and their prospects in American urban centers? Are they an effective compromise between car-centric design and walkability?
Are Wisconsin MPOs different from those of other states?
Urban Planning To See in Copenhagen
Traditional Euro-bloc: what it is, how it was built, why it can't be built anymore
I'm job shadowing a group of planners in my city in the coming weeks—what questions should I ask?
Were apartments meant to be temporary dwellings until people could afford homes?
How would you fix America's High Speed Rail infrastructure?
Thoughts on small towns as tiny cities re Culpeper, Virginia
Industrial Land Crisis: Converting industrial land into new housing hurts the middle class
“The Problem With Everything-Bagel Liberalism” Odd title but a good article on the Byzantine rules that often make it so difficult to build housing, transit, and density in blue states in the USA.
Urban Planning Tourism: Zurich
Planning Tourism: Utrecht vs Amsterdam
This hidden flaw in California homes can cause major earthquake destruction
Principal/Senior Planner Job Description
Solutions for blighted properties
International (not US) Sustainable Planning Field Trip Locations
Street Trees as Climate Resilience
Some math: replacing two-sided parallel street parking with one-sided angle parking to eliminate car door bike crashes
paris has banned e scooters. the turnout was abysmal but hidalgo supports it. what is your opinion on e scooters? should the be banned or regulated, or cities should build more infrastructure to acommodate them?
Amtrak and Transit Oriented Development
LA needs more left arrow green light turns
America Has Too Much Parking. Really.
After three years of work, we are finally able to show our project of an urban transformation of Odessa, Ukraine.
Are special industrial zones, separated from the rest of the city, for industries that aren't polluting, beneficial or even relevant?
Why cities are filling up with luxury apartments
Culver City Attempting to Remove New Bike and Bus Lanes
6 years of change in Vancouver (2012 vs 2018)
Rural urbanist towns: A contradiction or the future? Can typical rural towns in America match the walkable and vibrant atmosphere similar to their European counterparts?
Buffalo’s New Goal: Filling 1,600 vacant East Side lots by 2025 with affordable housing
Maybe we should just stop encouraging population growth?
Suburb has fence built over road
What kind of businesses are allowed in residential zones in Japan?
General Interview tips?
San Francisco could be on the verge of collapse. What should California do about it?
How Paris Pulled Off What New York and London Can Only Dream About
NACTO conference in Denver May 2023
Book Review: How Urban Slums Shape City Politics
What classifies as an "upper mid sized" city?
CPA or CFA
Regulate development, but why don't you just cut out all the red tape.
Why does American multifamily architecture look so banal?
Texas House Introducing Bill to Allow for Accessory Dwelling Units
This is why using urban design to manage speed limits and encourage people to walk or bike instead of driving are so important. There are genuinely important mental health benefits to reducing car traffic
My local university offers an urban planning post-grad certificate program, but not a masters. Would this suffice to get an entry level job in planning?
11,000 Housing Units Possible with S.F. Office Conversions, Study Says
Florida affordable housing bill passes
What type of planner are you, what is your salary, and how many hours, on average, do you work per week?
How did Paris manage to commit to such a sweeping shift in infrastructural focus and resource management so quickly?
Strong Towns Nanaimo — Work Continues on the Mary Ellen Drive Roundabout
Why Public Bathrooms Suck in North America
How do you track and manage your land development projects?
how to get started on research?
Alexandria looks to follow in Arlington's footsteps with affordable housing initiative
Certifications for Jacks of all Trades
Urban planning job easy to get with architecture degree?
How come most of NYC's corporate headquarters are located in the actual city of NYC itself, but a lot of LA's corporate headquarters are located in the surrounding suburbs, with a few in the actual city of LA itself?
Do I need an enigneering degree/should I get an engineering degree to pursue transportation planning?
Austin tried and failed to rewrite its land code. Republican lawmakers might do it for them.
Post-bachelor’s degree
What Is the Housing Choice Voucher Program?
Example of a city-wide gov. organization that oversees all multi-modal transportation (bus, bike, ride-share, rail, etc.)??
Urban Renewal in a Parisian Banlieue - This Town Did The Impossible
So You Want to Turn an Office Building Into a Home? Cities are eager to do this amid rising remote work. But it’s harder than you might think.
Malls and Tropical Climates
More homes per lot? Debate swirls in Edmonds, Kirkland and Burien
How will population growth affect housing in the US?
How do you see cities and suburbs in the future?
Discussion: Urban Logistics, sharing the street
Rising seas will cut off many properties before they’re flooded | Along the US coasts, many properties will lose access to essential services
Could This Londoner Transform American Passenger Rail?
Question about a crosswalk
Fairfax County reverts to old zoning code after Va. Supreme Court nixes 2021 update
Road noise makes your blood pressure rise -- literally: Study shows the sound of traffic is associated with increased risk of hypertension, calls for public health measures to reduce noise exposure
Any advice for becoming an NYC (or similarly large city) planner?
The difference between Urban Planning and Urban Design explained
How common are "straddling buildings"?
Virginia is for YIMBYs: the pro-housing movement spreading across the commonwealth
Vacancy tax in a historic downtown
DMV people- where can I find planning related job postings?
The Musician Lifestyle: Grit, Glamour, and… Parking?
(MAP) Hertfordshire county council wants to build a light rail / Tram system. I planned the route for fun.
How to become an RPP as a EIT
Why don’t cities use angled parking all the time?
When did New York start building slowly?
Would a degree in urban and environmental planning be sufficient for a job in urban&regional planning?
Arlington ends single-family-only zoning
How to fight road widening
New and Improved for urban commuter to get around places (Joke)
Gov. Polis’ housing proposal would allow duplexes, townhomes, ADUs across many cities in Colorado
How Will AI Affect Urban Planning / Planners?
Get Spongy!
The Problem with SUVs: Uytae Lee's Stories About Here
Colorado's Newest Buildings Can Speed the EV Revolution
Memphis is slated to complete its first BRT line in 2027, thoughts on the plan?
Examining the Latest Multi-Year Evidence on the Scale and Effects of Opportunity Zones Investment
6 Cities on 5 Continents That Are Reimagining Urban Life
The Government Created Housing Segregation. Here’s How the Government Can End It.
Literature on the effects of rentism on the development of cities
The U.S. Is Increasingly Diverse, So Why Is Segregation Getting Worse?
inspiring Urban Design
Too big? Too small? No, these office buildings are just right for housing
Skyscrapers in a sea of single-family homes - Toronto
Why don’t more apartments have external elevators to help movers and facilitate the moving of large appliances?
Development without displacement: How one Boston neighborhood has held off gentrification
The One Cause of Poverty That’s Never Considered | In a new book, Matthew Desmond argues that to understand what keeps people poor, we need to take a good look at the rich
Is Grad School worth it?
Seeking a career change from mortgage finance to urban planning. How do I get there?
Doing construction work in NYC streets is complicated and costly. This report examines obstacles and offers solutions for delivering a more modern, multidimensional right-of-way.
They’ve Been Warned: Massachusetts Attorney General Says Suburbs ‘Must Comply’ With Transit-Oriented Housing Law
The Obscure Maritime Law That Ruins Your Commute
Amtrak and VIA Rail Canada Fully Restore Adirondack Service: NYC <-> Albany <-> Saratoga Springs <-> Plattsburgh <-> Montreal
What’s the MSc Planning workload like?
Is there a type of writing sample you prefer to see when interviewing?
Safe Streets for All in New Castle County, DE - WILMAPCO Survey
Should they make an interstate highway from Portsmouth, NH to Albany NY?
York MES-Plan or Waterloo MA-Plan?
Entry-Level/Internship ANYWHERE
What Vietnam’s alleyways can teach the Bay Area about bureaucracy and community
Minimum Lot Sizes
Mark Robert's video on urban drone deliveries is centered around eliminating the need for cars for last-mile deliveries. This seems like a solution that only applies to car-centric areas without mixed-use
Understanding City/Municipal Finance
Urban growth of Greater Buenos Aires
We are living in a golden age of electric cargo bikes
What is land value tax and could it fix the housing crisis?
The Disappointing Distraction of Vehicular Cycling
Becoming a planner (getting certified) without a degree in planning?
The Anglosphere needs to learn to love apartment living | Housebuilding rates in English-speaking states have fallen behind the rest of the developed world
Donald Shoup's Rosemary Street Parking Lab
Policy, Design, Planning, or Non-profit management
Fitness centers that operate like libraries or in libraries
An idea for a motorized vehicle bridge from Sicily to Italy main land
Which US city has the most effective affordable housing policies?
The Politics of Food Trends: On Gentrification, Tastes, and Neighborhoods
how to Turn Your Neighborhood into a Village
Seeking academic/career advice.
The Social Engineering of the Freeway System and other social engineering and control policies
What do you think about this "15-minute city" concept? Do you think it's a form of authority-control? What do you guys think?
Writing a paper on behaviours expected/ engineered by urban design in corporate-function development.
Why is the only new development we get "luxury" apartments?
US banks are sacrificing poor communities to the climate crisis | It took decades to force banks to abandon racist redlining. We don’t have decades to avert catastrophic climate crisis
Do most public sector planners do zoning enforcement as well?
Can anyone direct me to a great planner resume?
Quantifying the visibility and permanence of transport
Seattle's Big Mistake - Every City Needs a Transit Hub!
Can Kansas City park its cars and become more walkable?
Street light EV charger retrofits
From Vandalism to Artistic Legitimacy: The Fascinating Evolution of Street Art as Public Art - Top 5 Cities Leading the Way
Planning adjacent careers that are 100% remote?
Question for Ontario planners about bill 23
Differences between spatial planning and town/urban planning?
Land Conservation: How Much is Too Much in Urban Areas?
Anyone know how to navigate census.gov? Need authoritative population density data
Do we need rail transit for TODs?
Has there been any examples of a section 8 or affordable housing development built near any upper middle class suburb or city in America past the year of 2010's, what was the overall impact?
Scientific American: Use Nature as Infrastructure
Interview: Auckland (and later all major New Zealand cities) upzoned the majority of land to allow for low- and mid-rise multifamily housing. As hoped, construction permits increased dramatically, land values rose on low-intensity parcels, and housing prices fell for higher-density buildings.
A Serious Critique of Congestion Costs and Induced Vehicle Travel Impacts
Financing a foreign UP Masters - do it, or an expensive gamble?
Plant Automation for Buildings
Is Planning Worth the Grad School Debt?
Retreat in Rodanthe | Along three blocks in a North Carolina beach town, severe erosion is upending life, forcing hard choices and offering a glimpse of the dilemmas other coastal communities will face
Are there any apps that you can use to make a street more cycle friendly or a better environment?
Renderings for Development Code
Airtran to LGA shelved
Why the humble city bus is the key to improving US public transit
Detroit’s 5 biggest public transit misses
Converting office space to apartment buildings is hard. States like California are trying to change that.
Ann Arbor’s new bikeways used by many, help grow bike ridership
Reading List on Development Control Regulations
Why Everyone Wants to Live in These Corn Cobs - History of Marina City in Chicago
87 permits and 1,000 days of meetings: How bureaucracy fuels S.F.’s housing crisis
California specific question regarding SB 9 and development timelines.
Well-known historical figures who aren't known for planning but influenced planning?
Are buildings commonly way bigger than their use or staff size?
Here’s How to Solve a 25-Story Rubik’s Cube
How does software help in urban planning?
Can self driving cars help accelerate the use of transit, by solving the last mile problem?
How do work vehicles get into cities with congestion charges or vehicle bans?
Why is tactile paving sometimes covered in asphalt?
Help shape the proposals for Oxford Street
AI tools for Architecture, Site Analysis, and Real Estate
Can BRT work with LRV?
Why old, shared dorms are better than new, private student residences
The Suburb With No City, Killeen, TX
My new channel
The proliferation of roundabouts in France
Re-Insurer Swiss RE also blames sprawl for insurance losses. An excerpt from the article states: "Besides the impact of climate change, land use planning in [some] areas, and urban sprawl into the wilderness, generate a hard-to-revert combination of high value exposure in higher risk environments."
These people
This Unknown City Looks Amazing
For urban cooling, forests beat street trees, landscaped parks: study
Making public transit free in The Netherlands (petition)
Small triangle park in lovely DC neighborhood is an abject failure; what could be changed to make it better?
US & UK Planning masters
Examples of Suburban Attempts to creat Town Centers?
Future for Urban Designer After graduate
How to transition career wise?
Park and garden design that seamlessly incorporates elements of trenches. For areas in NATO countries within certain distance of Russia, in case of land invasion ( LINK to ideas sub )
Old warehouse turned into fourplex in Portland (found on google maps)
Amazing Nightwalk in the Historical City of Shaoxing, birthplace of the Shaoxing Wine
Local bus service coverage in Poland falls by more than 40% since 2016
What Urban Design course to take in Sydney?
Endless sprawl
Ever-larger cars and trucks are causing a safety crisis on US streets – here’s how communities can fight back
Shevchenka street in Lviv, Ukraine in 2023 and 2018
gotta love Walmart
TransitPorn: AVLfest Shuttle Map
Boston (Allston/Brighton) Bus Route 57 Corridor redesign
Small Home Gardens in the City 🔥Philadelphia
Less space for cars, more for green. Utrecht's redesigned ring road
The view from a building in Dallas. There should not be this much parking in downtown.
how would you install a lighting system to this passway?
Designing Urban Places that Don't Suck - Not Just Bikes
Large roads next to rivers
Kowloon Walled City, once the most densely populated place on earth, with 33000 people living in a 6.4 acre block in Hong Kong
Study reveals link between neighborhood environments and likelihood of metabolic syndrome
Recommendations for Journals on Urban Planning/Urban Design
How do I convince an American the public transportation and removal of car will work?
ASMR for the teaming urbanists
Hand drawn (fake) city maps are always fun
Everybody Wins with Congestion Pricing
Why air conditioners can be a problematic solution to extreme heat | Passive cooling, greenery, behaviour changes are more sustainable, researchers say
Salesforce Calling All Ecopreneurs to Bring Sustainability Solutions to San Francisco (Link)
Designing for difference - looking for sources
Higher education
Western Europe: what field does urban design belong to in your country?
Poland to launch scheme for “de-concreting” and regreening small towns
Here are 10 ideas S.F. can import from Tokyo to save downtown
What are the differences in the everyday lives of urban designers vs planners?
Worth it?: Purchasing the CROW (dutch design manual for bicycle traffic)
Guerilla signage
How the lead pipe detection model in Flint, Michigan, works
Resources for Research Paper
Best literature for someone interested in urban design/planning?
a travel advisory for… chicken
Dvirtseva square and Chernivetska street in Lviv, Ukraine
Effect of a road and small stream on an 78 degree (F), overcast day - every square inch of asphalt counts
When AI falls a bit short...
Japan uses sprinklers that spray warm underground water to melt the snow on the roads
Tips for getting good at your job?
The skyline of this Polish city started to change dramatically
Rymlianyna street in Lviv, Ukraine
cool time capsule flipping through this book from ‘95
Opinions wanted on road redesign
What makes a bus transit system exceptional in the US? What are the good standards to strive for?
Lawton (Oklahoma) then and now
How artificial intelligence can aid urban development
Why don’t cities create more walkable streets when it’s financially better for them?
Multinational Urban Design firms?
Paris to charge SUV drivers higher parking fees to tackle ‘auto-besity’ | Size, weight and motor will be taken into account as councillors target ‘dangerous, cumbersome’ vehicles
ChatGPT's opinion on city design
A top down view of the southern half of my ongoing Minecraft city project that's been in the transition phase from car centric hell. Still major WIP. Imported to Blender. What do you notice (good and bad) in the street level design, and make any suggestions if you want?
How Come We're Not Building Cities in a Data-Driven Manner Yet?
How to design uphill areas without car-dependency?
Why does moscow how such a incredible amount of traffic? there is gridlock everywhere you look, is it the road design or parking policy or bad drivers?
CTF Transportation Planning Event 2022
What are these things in road, Glencoe, Ky. c.1920. Stepping stones? Across the main road? They seem rather far apart for that.
retro fit of existing commie block area, tried to keep as manny of the buildings as possible but tore 2 inconvenient once, tried to densify and create streets instead of buildings in a park. what do yall think?
The changing streetscapes of Charleston, West Virginia.
A while ago the city council of bergen approved the extention of the light rail system. What do y'all think?
Go back to school or find a job
Going car free for a month in Charlotte, NC
Berlin's downtown will be redesigned by constructing more buildings, building a new tram line, and removing 2 lanes of an 8-lane road.
Before and after Gregorio de Laferre, Argentina. (Sorry for the quality, there are not many photos of this area)
Before the car (1910 prior), what was the population/population density required to support a street car line in a given area?
The Forgotten MoMa
12 years of change in downtown Katowice, Poland
Communities both online and IRL should be accessible. r/urbandesign will go dark on the 12th.
To Make a Greener Building, Start With an Old One
Las Vegas Won't Save the Water It Needs by Just Removing Lawns
Breathtaking urbanism I experienced in Utrecht, Netherlands
About the Architecture training program <3
The decline of the city grid: an analysis
Speed limit signs with day and night limits?
Another post on the suburbia hell that is Cross Lanes, WV
Cross Lanes, WV traffic is getting horrible at rush hour. Could roundabouts fix the traffic flow at these fourway stoplight intersections?
Where would be the best place to start building a car light/free town in the US
Evaluating this draft site plan from an engineering firm with no design/land use planning experience... thoughts?
How to design protected bike lanes to account for emergency vehicles?
Makariou avenue, Nicosia, looking clean af, yesterday afternoon
Wirye New Town, South Korea: dense, walkable neighborhood for 100,000 people
Biourbanism | cities as nature: A resilience model
Getting a masters in planning abroad?
The Hidden Climate Success in Minnesota’s New Transportation Law
Suburban Density, Hanam, South Korea
Documentary on Historic Newburyport's Near-Destruction in the Name of Urban Renewal
What is the policy rationale for prohibiting parking in a front yard?
What are some cities or cool urban initiative taking place in developing countries?
In Brazil's Favelas, Green Roofs Might Help Relieve the Heat
What country are you from and do you think the Dutch, Spanish or Japanese school of urban design would best fit your country?
Lessons From a Renters’ Utopia. It Might Look Like Vienna. Soaring real estate markets have created a worldwide housing crisis. What can we learn from a city that has largely avoided it?
Slums and abandoned lots transformed into public housings and public squares in Buenos Aires, Argentina
New 'food forest' in Mattapan [Boston] a space to harvest food and grow community
Hypothetical Raleigh, NC, Metro System (Not to Scale)
Q? | Traffic Calming initiatives in rural neighbourhoods
Ten Signs of a Resurgent Downtown
What a huge difference eliminating cars can make on the pleasantness of a city
A well-designed city after Putin's bombing, residential areas destroyed
Letter from Zlín: the Czech town where capitalism and constructivism co-exist
The Urban Designer in Society: Populism and Mass Culture
It’s not just about bringing workers back to the office: 10 indicators of a downtown resurgence
Berlin is becoming a sponge city
Bipartisan lawmaker group introduces new affordable housing bill
‘Granny flats’ play surprising role in easing California’s housing woes
London's Green Belt is 3x the size of London itself
This neighborhood in the South Bay has no sidewalks…
IN FOCUS: How Southeast Asian cities lack ‘political will’ to fix notorious traffic jams
Did america use to much concrete for construction making everything ugly long term
Hiking, camping at an abandoned USSR factory
Putin committed genocide in Bucha, murdering 400+ civilians in organized killings, and many of the historic buildings and trees were also destroyed - one of the streets is now rebuilt
How can cities become more pleasant places to live? | DW Documentary
How the Design of Corners Affects Speed
Assessing the potential of pedestrianization
The fairly rapid pace of change of the streets of spain city
Urban design project
Best repurposing of old infrastructure into an urban park - the High Line
Coney Island on Fire (1899) [08:30]
Was interested to know everyone's thoughts on parking, especially parking minimums and how they have affected urban form.
Career in Urban Design
Skateboarding was a Crime: An Urban History of Skate Bans and Skate Stoppers
How to give a town community and strengthen local buisness?
rate this design? spanish design?
The ghosts of California's most utopian experiments live in the remains of communes [Llano del Rio colony in the southeastern corner of the Antelope Valley]
A video I made on why riding on the footpath is common in Japan
Best online flood map?
I am once again asking for your inputs and suggestion! what can i do to improve this design?
Mid-density of some of NYC outlying neighborhoods (bike lanes, light traffic and bus routes)
NYC Charges $39 Toll
City Tests Traffic Light That Only Turns Green for Drivers Who Obey the Speed Limit | An experiment is taking place in a quiet suburb of Montreal.
boston west end, before and after urban renewal
Winnipeg rethinks Portage and Main intersection, but not the barriers
Can someone familiar with San Francisco give me an example/image of what Jane Jacobs is talking about here?
In the United States, which federal department is "responsible" or most influential for urban design?
How to create neighbourhood edges which are welcoming (opposed to a gated community)
Your comments on this urban settlement (Toretto, Brazil)
What is this gate for? On the entrance to a footpath in suburban London, the top is narrow enough that you have to walk sideways through it
Little Moscow (The Forbidden City)
Opinion on 1920s canadian/East usa urbanism? (pics from toronto around parliament st) what where the major positives and negatives?
What tech do Urban Planners use?
Trash bins designed to be baboon-proof - seen in Zambia
Metro System of the Largest European City
Portland’s plans for a zero-emission delivery zone sound like a breath of fresh air
She ripped up her manicured lawn and challenged the norms of gardening stories
Rental Permits are Scams
What are your opinions on BRT lines in cities?
[Video] Why did Kids Stop Walking to School?
Surprisingly cool smaller city/towns?
This bus stop in New Jersey is between ramps on a freeway interchange
Karaaslan piknik Bahçesi, a car picnic park in Turkey
Vancouver explores plan to make Gastown car free
Is there any study or research that urbanism on a human scale as defined by Jan Gehl can positively impact employees' well-being?
Amsterdam turned a street into a park
PT 2 zoomed in, red is apartments, blue is villas/rowhouses. Top of image is easy bottom is west, sun rises in the east and sets in the west. Thick black is roads and thin black is paths/sidewalks, if anything is unclear please ask in the comments
Contemplating career path
Odesa, Ukraine. It is very nice to have places in the city where there are absolutely no cars and a huge pedestrian zone, convenient to come here with the family, drink coffee, ride bicycles and have a good day.
Design Revealed for Central Valley High Speed Rail Stations - San Francisco YIMBY
How to make illustrations like this?
"The definition of good urbanism is very subjective but for me its how easy it is to live in a city without a car and how weird you feel when you actually doing it"
Is Urban Design Closer to Architecture or Urban Planning?
How do you use InDesign in your practice?
The city beyond Amazon's 'Great Return'
Analysis: Climate-Smart Transportation would save Minnesotans up to $91 Billion
Which are Better: Trenitalia's or Italo's High-Speed Trains
This Is Not A Bike Lane (...and why we need them)
Survey about life in the city (for anyone who lives in a city) - School Project
Pathways to Urban Design
We Must Legitimize Cycling! - Inspiration from Davis, CA
Okinawa Japan's City of Concrete
What methods do you use to network as an urban designer?
Suburban modal filter - allows ped/cyclists and emergency vehicles through but forces cars to go around . Yea or nay?
Example of a good zoning laws - production factory in the middle of a small settlement in North-West Croatia/Europe
What are the perks of having a tram instead of a dedicated bus line?
Why Socialists Must Reject the YIMBY-NIMBY Binary | Cosmonaut Mag
MArch Urban Design in UCL or MS Design of Cities SCI-Arc?
Red is apartments, blue is single family homes/rowhouses Are there any problems or things i should change? Ps the apartments are only 2-4 stories tall
How Tokyo Became an Anti-Car Paradise
The future YIMBYs want…
Did anyone in the world try to recreate any European city from renaissance period?
Urban Design with an architecture degree?
What are some good examples in the US of urban parks like Central Park?
What traffic calming devices could i use for this kind of road?
Just opened in Bergen, Norway
Drivers vs. Everybody | We all want roads that are safe, efficient, and pleasant. But no one wants to change for that to happen
Why the high rise hate?
How would you redesign this intersection in the middle of our town?
Connect with your City
Current demand for urban designer
Cities Empty of Joy: Fuel Consumption to Fill the Void
Town zoning and planning regulations are absurd and the reason we can’t build anything
Building the missing middle does not cause overcrowding. Banning it is what causes overcrowding.
American Children Are Under House Arrest
Do more roads mean more traffic?
A historical parking lot destroyed in Vancouver Canada
How do Dutch style intersections account for right/passenger side hooks?
Video about traditional architecture and urbanism: 'Building Like We Used To: Why We Still Can (& Should)'
Portfolio project revisions or just do new projects?
Boston moved its highway underground in 2003. This was the result.
Intersection in Pathum Wan, Bangkok, Thailand
to people who work in urban planning
How would you design an urban neighborhood on an extremely sloped area?
I started building an American style Minecraft city 3 years ago, lately I've been trying to make it less car centric. I removed a section of an interstate that was 4 blocks south of the urban center. Still WIP but now it looks like this. (Before/After comparison)
Google’s free tree canopy tool now covers hundreds more cities. Here’s how early adopters are using it.
What are good examples of mid sized to large cities where a city street transitions into a rural highway/freeway in an ideal matter without sprawl? This should exclude places with natural barriers like sharp slopes in Bogota, or things like military bases.
Can anyone spot the problem?
Does anyone know why the stop line in the center-lane is set back?
I have questions if some urban designers would be willing to help.
Village center with "park", by artist Wolf 1994.jpg
What Makes Italian High-Speed Rail So Special?
”Hipodrom” Housing Complex Braila, Romania Built in 1971.
Anywhere to get urban design mock briefs?
Upzoning Modestly Increases Housing Supply and Affordability, Study Says | Planetizen News
New green streets are being built in Buenos Aires, Argentina (before/after)
Mechanical road sign in Japan !
Dubai Vertiport Terminal to get a Biomorphic Design!
Study: Traffic Cameras Reduce Speeding, Crashes
[Video] Pedestrianized Streets Are Good, So What Are We Even Doing?
How Paris Pulled Off What New York and London Can Only Dream About
Ledras in Old #Nicosia in the #1960s and today
30 seconds left on my walk signal, and the driver turning left shouts “don’t walk, you idiot.” This is why we can’t have a society.
Eleftheria's Square around 2000 and in 2022, Cyprus
The Industrial Land Crisis
Why does American multifamily architecture look so banal?
Sidewalks in some Amman areas 'unwalkable', say residents
Thoughts: Supermarket banners
Street Bins: How does bin design shape our attitudes towards waste management?
How to Make an Attractive City
Do you know of any 4-to-5-lane street conversions (with protected bike lanes)?
Book Review: How Urban Slums Shape City Politics
The Unconventional History On Why LA Has The Most Diverse Architecture In The World
What is the difference between urban design and urban planning?
North America vs Europe
"peter pichler architecture's ski lifts are a playful twist on familiar alpine design"
This is why using urban design to manage speed limits and encourage people to walk or bike instead of driving are so important. There are genuinely important mental health benefits to reducing car traffic
Riyadh's World's Largest Modern Downtown
11,000 Housing Units Possible with S.F. Office Conversions, Study Says
Why Public Bathrooms Suck in North America
Paint and flimsy plastic are not infrastructure. I'm tired of city planners pretending that they are
Complejo vial Gonzalitos
City stairs
[Video/Podcast] The 15-Minute Conspiracy - The Urbanist Agenda by NotJustBikes, featuring Adam Something
Discovering Italian Railway System: History, Organization, and Performance
How to make midrise, new-build developments less “sterile”?
MUD at CMU or CCNY?
How much traffic congestion can we avoid by having dedicated motorcycle/scooter lanes in major thoroughfares?
Food Shortages are Guaranteed
The difference between Urban Design and Urban Planning explained
policy advocacy
Mapping America’s activity centers: The building blocks of prosperous, equitable and sustainable regions
New Urbanist Street Patterns
[Video] Why Construction Projects Always Go Over Budget
Helge Hilnhutter - Public transport, Walking, and Urban Environments
How things would be different with a little bit of rezoning and a Land Value Tax
Too big? Too small? No, these office buildings are just right for housing
How to turn your neighbourhood into a village
Urban Design Summer Course/Portfolio Building
Need the name of this book
Entry Level/Internship anywhere!
Fifty-year-old entertainment venue gets a facelift: “Even though it’s a public monumental space, it doesn’t feel approachable right now,” he said. “And so, for me, that’s a critical part of the makeover that needs to happen; its relationship to the sidewalk and the public realm around it.”
The Anglosphere needs to learn to love apartment living
UAE Farms the Desert
master of urban design
You Need a Third Place. Here's Why.
Policy, Design, Planning, or Non-profit management
Unité d'habitation : a Towering concrete structure that changed modern architecture
The Politics of Food Trends: On Gentrification, Tastes, and Neighborhoods
Inside the movement to remake America’s city streets
Cross Section Software
General Academic/Career Advice for a 19y/o
Old Nicosia in the 1960s vs 2023
Writing a paper on behaviours expected/ engineered by urban design in corporate-function development. So far I’ve got docility, presentable space users, continuous movement - any others I’ve overlooking?
intersection in tokyo japan https://earth.google.com/web/@35.67691784,139.74922243,13.83412703a,420.96991623d,35y,183.12251974h,0t,0r
How one influential Los Angeles cemetery was designed to redefine our perception of graveyards
From Vandalism to Artistic Legitimacy: The Fascinating Evolution of Street Art as Public Art - Top 5 Cities Leading the Way
Score project; ideas, and solutions for smart mobility and smart living in an urban zone
New York's Chief Urban Designer breaks down the future of sustainable cities
How long does an average Pseudo-public (privately-owned public) space lease last? When governments privatise off these spaces how long are they in the hands of their new owners to manage in urban space (specifically in Britain)?
Zoning bylaws -Canadian
Converting office space to apartment buildings is hard. States like California are trying to change that.
How the Japanese Use Sprinklers for Snow Removal
Does this fit here? Elon Musk’s "city of the future" is... an American suburb 🤦‍♂️
This Town Did The Impossible
Survey on Metro Vancouver Transportation for University Research Project
Are old cities nicer to live in than new ones? What can we learn from medieval cities that we could apply to how we build cities today? I made this deep dive into the urban design of Santiago de Compostela to explore how and why.
The Significance of Public Art in Urban Spaces..
How to get hired as an architecture graduate?
Saudi Arabia Announces Massive Cube Megabuilding in Riyadh
Here’s the 2nd Version! Feedback Please! More info in comments!
IMPORTANT SURVEY FOR UNI!
CTA Bus Route Petition
Recommendations for urban-design-focused planning documents or reports by municipalities in the US?
How the deadly Long Beach earthquake in 1933 propelled California's seismic safety rules
Reverse angle parking meets bus stop?
Designing and building our way to affordable housing?
Why America's Biggest Cities Are Littered With Vacant Lots | WSJ
The pushback against the 15-minute city - The Boston Globe
What do yall think about these last second lane expansions found often in the netherlands?
Me against the world when questioning the city grid in school...
Looking for great transportation data storytelling examples from US cities
The coolest bridge you've (probably) never heard of... (Featuring a unique inhabited bridge!) :)
Micro mobility revolution races ahead, as policymakers and police try to keep up
Former timber port turned into beautiful residential area in Amsterdam
A main avenue is being converted into a park in Buenos Aires, Argentina
Is anyone willing to offer urban design advice? I’m a student working on a project and in a tough position.
I’m not sure if this is the right sun but could I have some feedback on my suburb design? Right now it is just basic zoning and arterial roads (in Canberra, Australia). More info in comments :)
Why are flat rooftops aren't being used?
Concrete paradise
O.C. malls, fading from their hip glory days, may get new lives as apartments
New images of NEOM’s mega-projects construction in Saudi Arabia
Water Prices will SOAR
Greetings, everyone! I've recently launched a publication on medium.com called THE URBAN OASIS dedicated to urban planning, transit, and public spaces.
Why arcaded sidewalks aren't that common?
Trying to find a U.S. city presentation about housing/transit that used "characters" to make the case
Architecture Site Analysis and Mapping Templates
The 2023 Complete Street Changemaker Title is awarded to the Public Works and Utilities Director of Casselberry, Florida , a small city outside of Orlando | Bike/Walk Central Florida
Two way Cycle Track with direction swapped (riding on the left side instead of right)
How do you all feel about freeway caps? Klyde Warren Park has been extremely successful in Dallas. We’re currently building another one. Other cities are also copy our deck park as a guide for their own.
[Video] Population Density 101: A Visual Guide to Suburbs and Skyscrapers
Infrastructure Dreams and Living Nightmares
Clip of 1950s Suburban Sprawl: Community Growth: Crisis and Challenge (1959)
15 min City Conspiracy
Anyone want to play a game of "guess which is a suburb and which is a city"?
Saudi Arabia Launches Mega Project to Develop World's Largest Modern Downtown in Riyadh
How can fictional universes influence our visions for the cities we build?
Lovely
By Adding Apartments, Malls Seek to Bring Shopping Closer to Home | Facing an existential crisis over empty space, owners are trying to fill malls with residences, building on the live-work-play model sought by young adults
London - Pseudo public space
Made some more changes to my bike lane plan for Dublin (check older post for original)
Staying at an apt air bnb in Southern California. Trying to figure out the purpose of these
Barcelona vs Amsterdam
São Paulo
Help needed with cycle lane planning
Suburban sprawl cancels carbon-footprint savings of dense urban cores
Check out my latest research paper on "Integration of urban resilience and human resilience evaluations for health promotion using Voxel Base Assessment (VBA)"!
Grimsby-on-the-Lake, Ontario, Canada - New Urbanist Small Town, May 2021
The Walkable Mixed-Use Urbanism of Snowshoe, West Virginia - YouTube
Debate: Which is the better plan for city streets? Picture 1: Bike Lane is next to sidewalk or Picture 2: Bike Lane is alongside live traffic. Explain your reasoning! Picture 3 is another example of Picture 1.
The city where cars aren't welcome.
Copenhagen vs Berlin for study abroad
Railroad Network
The World’s Most Successful Model for Sustainable Urban Development?
[Video] How Vancouver's Waterfront Became so Boring
Story about urban transitions, better streets, public spaces, and community-led design. Want to tell a story like this locally, or get involved?
How to make a Clean Urban Design/Architecture Resume!
Okay I have a idea! And I think you guys can help
You cant afford walkable neighborhoods
AI in Landscape Architecture | Midjourney vs DALL-E (OpenAI)
How bike racks, flower beds and 'parklet' seating areas are replacing parking spaces
City Annual Cost of services for a Suburban and Urban House
Are covers for overground metro tracks expensive?
Before and After | Christchurch, New Zealand
Fort Wayne Electric Works: Excitement is Building!
Why will Egypt's new capital city fail || The new administrative capital ||
A deadly building flaw common in California brings destruction and misery to Turkey, Syria — The flaws of non-ductile concrete construction are found across California, with many buildings having not been evaluated or retrofitted and at risk of collapse in a serious earthquake.
How would you fix this - wrong answers only!
How 7 Parking Lots pay 1/4th the tax of one building, despite taking 8x the land
Before and after. Street in Buenos Aires’ city center
[Video] Making a Walking Paradise Out of a Car-Centric City
Business savvy working people bring life back to worn neighborhoods (8th Avenue in Brooklyn in New York City)
Suburbia Is Destroying Our Climate — And Our Communities
Colorful Stilted buildings on water
Exxon’s Former Houston Headquarters Could Become a Residential High Rise
I try to bring more nuance to a very complex issue: gentrification. What do you think?
Town proposal.
Exploring Abandoned theater from the 1990s! With power!?
Kenzō Tange, City of Skopje model 1963
How do different places make parallel transit lines interconnected?
How many people typically reside in an urban block like this?
CPTED (Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design) examples in South Korea where they put LED lights, murals, CCTV cameras, SOS emergency buttons, etc on dark, isolated alleys (usually in poor neighborhoods) to make them safer
On big block buildings…
Old skateboard ramp converted to seating
Recommendation on what to include in a portfolio
Public Space: Notes on why it Matters, what We Should Know, and how to Realize Its Potential
Great way to Create and Publish online Flipbook Portfolios!
Planting more trees could axe summer deaths by a third | European researchers say that increasing the urban tree coverage to 30% across European cities could reduce the number of heat-related deaths over summer there by a third
Central town intersection redesign, how would the traffic light work? Needs bus priority due to inner right turning lane
opinion on my thesis project on redesigning a quarry in Kerala
If you could design your own home, what would you change?
Denver legalizes jaywalking
On subways and bullet trains…
Types of parks
Montreal City Hall. Destroyed by fire in 1922, it was later rebuilt using the remaining masonry walls. Source: BANQ, Massicotte Albums, 3-162-c,
Can new urban developments support low-rent uses like strip malls?
Benefits of Good Urban Planning on a Rural College Campus
Car-centric
Proposal reimagines strolling down Colfax Avenue in Denver
Urban Design Degree requirements
Greenery around primary schools is positively associated with Reading, Numeracy and Grammar & Punctuation scores in schoolchildren
Help with socio-economic analysis
First Year planning student. Made this bubble diagram for my urban design class. Thoughts?
Day 4 of "History of Urban Form Before the Industrial Revolutions" by AEJ Morris. The island of Manhattan, New York - 1869
Movie/series/book recommendations
Is walkability possible in non gridded environments?
Day 3 of "History of Urban Form Before the Industrial Revolutions". Versailles, 1746 - palace, park, lake, and town
Strong Towns - Gentrification: Improvement to land value ratio
Day 2 of posting an image from "History of Urban Form before the industrial revolutions". Pont Neuf - Paris, France 1734-39, from the Turgot Plan
CALL FOR PAPERS - Toronto Urban Journal - Volume 3
Critique of patrician urbanism - in search of a Jane Jacobs quote?
Vienna 1862 - from one of my favorite books of all time. Every page is worthy of a post here
A paradise for homeless people?
Does anyone know why are trees planted road side and not in the middle of the rectangle? (Photo taken in Buenos Aires, Argentina)
Looking for a square makeover advertising video
12 Major Projects Coming to Downtown Spartanburg
Help Create a Better Belfast - Vote for the Most Socially Responsive Urban Design at Mackie's Site Competition
Street has it all - commercial, residential, cars, parking, elevated subway line, bus line
What does this pipe do? (Halifax, Canada)
"sponge cities"
Why isn't a billionaire playing Sim City IRL?
Final part of my review of Jane Jacobs' "The Death and Life of Great American Cities". I talk about the four generators of city vitality and how cities are engines of economic growth. Hope you enjoy it! Are there other books you'd like to see a review of?
Evolution of Pittsburgh's Strip District: 26th and Smallman St looking southwest (towards Downtown)Pictures from 2008 to 2022 via Street View
Streets of Pune, India
Is Telosa anything more than a vanity project?
Urban Design and/or Community Development Book Recommendations
Here's my book review of Jane Jacobs' "Death and Life of Great American Cities". Hope you enjoy it! What other foundational urban design books do you think I should read?
contrast between urban and nature is so pretty
The decline of the city grid
Makariou Avenue Nicosia, before and after its much criticised renovation. Do you think it was better before or after the renovation?
Using the term "urban" loosely - Aerial shot of the Forbidden City, Beijing
What exactly is a “capillary web” street design?
The OG 5-over-1
with and without trees, what a difference it makes
Looking for a copy of A Pattern Language in Spanish. Anyone have advice for where I could find one? I'm in Medellin, Colombia
https://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/circulars/ec003/ch1.pdf Rural road safety and design, sweden
Comparison of North American and Eastern European streets
considering these shocking statistics for Pittsburgh, what should be done to improve the cities public transport system?
Can natural infrastructure help revitalize Winnipeg’s downtown? | Taking cues from innovative projects like downtown Edmonton’s Warehouse Park, a focus on nature-based solutions could breathe new life into Winnipeg’s core
Can anyone explain why London utility wiring is so much better than New York's (¬_¬)
Urban Planning Masters for a Mechanical Engineer
Wirye New Town, South Korean take for new urbanism housing more than 100,000 people
What apps can be used to show how a redesigned street would look?
Intrresting Cyclist Round abouts...
Potential dumb question: Why are offices or non community center business the center of every city?
Columbus is 30% Parking Lot
Yeouido Sibeom Apartment Complex at Seoul, South Korea. Built in 1971, it supplied 1,578 houses for upper class, symbolizing new and modernized living.
Congressional Spending Bill Includes First Ever Federal ‘YIMBY’ Grant Program
Shifting gears: why US cities are falling out of love with the parking lot
New mixed use flats in Colombes, France near Paris
Climate change is forcing cities to rethink their tree mix
This is what we need more of! AMLI 808 in Chicago; 318 Apartments, 300+ bike storage spaces, 16 car parking spaces, and 1 block from the train. Bonus points for all traffic lights on Wells St being timed to 12mph.
Nothing is more powerful than a rendering for inspiring change in your city. Introducing the world's first AI-powered street rendering service!
A different view at Poland's growing capital
What's Your Favorite Urban Design Project?
The skyline of this Polish city started to change dramatically
Bundang, South Korea: one of five new cities built for "2 million housing supply plan". Also called "The best place to live under the heaven" by the locals.
What is the smallest urban design studio in Europe?
Six Secrets From the Planner of Sevilla’s Lightning Bike Network
They Use Jet Engines to Remove the Snow
Jamsil Jugong Apartment Complexes at Songpa, Seoul, South Korea. Built in 1975, it supplied 19,180 houses for lower middle class.
Getting bus priority right. Lessons from Bologna
Yerres, France redevelopes an old surface parking lot for the train station into mixed use development, including social housing and even a police station.
what program is used to create these?
Mapo Jugong Apartment Complex at Seoul, South Korea in 1962. Supplying 450 houses for middle class, it was the first apartment complex built in South Korea
Third places for teens?
Designing the "perfect city"
When should I apply for a graduate job?
Recently installed, including the electrical boxes, never used. Hwy 12, Sonoma, Ca. Would be nice if it had been installed where there was actual cross traffic, and if we could place it on private property/the lawn, instead.
The Source of the Nile Bridge is a fabulous bridge which will make your walk memorable. It's breath taking Architecture & the beautiful view of the Nile River will leave you mesmerized. It runs across the World's longest River.
Help- Pointers and sources to anything related to community oriented design
Walkable Buenos Aires.
I need help finding land use maps
What do you guys think about these 2 interchanges in my city? Also what type of interchange would each of them fall into?
Experimenting with road safety using minecraft, any issues?
Emerald Island -- Green sustainable community supported by TBC
showing surface material of paths with georeference
Rotterdam, 25 jaar geleden en nu
NYC Wants to Cut Average Commute Times to 30 Minutes as Part of Revival Plan
When the American Dream Became the Urban Planning Nightmare
Three examples of middle density housing all at one intersection!
They Fought the Lawn. And the Lawn Lost | After their homeowner association ordered them to replace their wildlife-friendly plants with turf grass, a Maryland couple sued. They ended up changing state law
The new SouthGate shopping center in Bath
new development in the Teglværkshavnen lake (copenhagen denmark) https://www.google.com/maps/uv?pb=!1s0x46525481b5c06fd9%3A0xc5c594d292438570!3m1!7e115!4shttps%3A%2F%2Flh5.googleusercontent.com%2Fp%2FAF1QipOIKGS4XjzAQFeaKR7P8SBkUFJkKh27Xlm0L5yz%3Dw660-h165-n-k-no!5steglvaerkshavnen%20-%20Google%20Se
Sinjeong Train Depot, Seoul, South Korea
Transforming a street filter into a parklet - London (via @Grow_N22)
Public Transport and Business choices Urban Design survey
Nevada Makes Historic Affordable Housing Investment
Some recent progress pics from a car chocked city
German urbanism
Interactive NYC tree map aims to help residents care for urban forest
San Francisco?
Putting my career, where my mouth is: Looking for Career-Paths/Idea's to apply my Computer Science Degree and Prowess towards Sustainable Urban Development?
Why is Grand Central So Different than Penn Station?
Where can I find successful examples of planning regionalism improving sprawl control?
Does this actually work and is it cost effective?
Roads within the hitgame Minecraft
Hardening is just one way to make buildings resilient, says urban development expert
Bench design in Barcelona.
Does density cause crime?
Started a series reviewing influential books on urban design. This is Part 1 of Jane Jacobs' "Death and Life of Great American Cities". Let me know what you think!
Level 5 Diploma in Education and Training (RQF) (DET - Previously known as DTLLS)
Street design in minecraft
Concrete trees
Opinion on this type of street/house design? Question/Architecture
before and after new jersey (New Brunswick)
Photo challenge: go for a walk in your city and take a photograph of some detail that you like, post the picture in a comment.
Career help?
Some interior natural stone cladding i’m working on here in Kenya 🇰🇪 just to break the monotony of paint which is better than a wallpaper. What do y’all think? Much love!
Spatial experience by edmund bacon | design of cities | Edu-Archs
Arhitectura Magazine - 20 cover designs from the 60s, 70s, 80s in Romania
Hi ! It's Kemro59 from the moderation team of the subreddit. Do you have ideas to improve the subreddit ? Or any problem that you have here that we could fix ? [November 28th, 2022].
Forbes article - One more lane will solve congestion
There is an Urban Design Challenge for the next-gen smart city, anyone wants to team up to participate? I found it quite interesting to co-design and co-create a future smart community https://www.pixmoving.com/hackcity
Which US City do you think was least effected by Urban Renewal (Or just wasn't effected at all)? For me, that answer definitely has to go to New York City (Despite tearing down the New York World Building to make room for an expanded entrance ramp to the Brooklyn Bridge).
Riding the Amtrak Northeast Regional...Boston to New York City (Downtown to Downtown)
Highway that ends with a parking lot?
I need an advice
Streetlight Concepts
Urbanizing climate justice. City's annual leture. Join us - virtual or in person (London)
Opinion on lane deviders?
How to house alot of people cheaply?
Which US City do you think had the worse Urban Renewal effect? For me, I think it's Cincinnati.
We love excessively wide stroads don't we folks?
This is why we should prioritize infrastructure for bicycles and pedestrians over infrastructure for cars
Office Conversions More Popular Than Ever
Buffalo, NY Grid at Night
HackCity Architecture Challenge - 100 Moving Spaces, 60 Days, ONE City
Street-road-expressway http://www.njtod.org/expanding-first-mile-last-mile-to-transit/
How Floating Wetlands Are Helping to Clean Up Urban Waters
Madrid Artist Transforms Abandoned Church Into Skaters' Haven
Where is the best country to work in urban design?
might sound like a stupid question, but how do you design for a place where everyone (residents) is already quite happy, no one has no issues whatsoever, they are satisfied with how things are already.
Why Community is so vital for Cities
Need career/masters help.
Yeah, cause it's definitely the PLASTIC pylons that are the extreme safety risk. Definitely not the cars those pylons were installed specifically to protect cyclists from 🙄. You know what really costs a lot of tax dollars? Emergency HOSPITAL VISITS for bone fractures and traumatic brain injuries!
Do American Fire Trucks Need To Be So Massive? - Cheddar Explains
The Chaotic Urban Form of Pittsburgh
Bus shelter for all, design survey.
Why "Fake" Downtowns Are The New Malls - Cheddar Explains
naw wtf
Requesting Feedback - Potential Urban Design Portfolio project
Streetlight Concepts
Why Alleys Are the Most Important Spaces in a City
roast my city: seattle. note that many of these intersections are on hills, and that it rains all the time but there isn't reflective paint so half the time you can't see where the lanes are lmao
A streetscape full of charging stations calls for smart design
Opinion on this type of development? 2 convenience stores, 1 restaurant, 1 clothes store
How communities in Scotland are breaking up the old land monop
The Story of Jane Jacobs (The mother of urban design)
Roast my City: Minneapolis
Everett Mayor Slams WA State Homelessness Program, Seeks to Block Shelter
Urban design jobs
Critiquing Jane Jacobs - Death and Life of American Cities
Cup holders for bench on a street - would it help in public places?
Would like some tips about books to read
What Can Be Done About Urban Heat Islands?
Urban Design Site Analysis and Mapping Templates
There must be a more efficient solution than this (35W/55/94, Minneapolis)
Could we get a thread of urban-design/urban-planning changes to US Laws due to the recent elections?
Why aren’t there more mixed use condo and townhome complexes?
America's deadliest road, explained
A New Direction for Atlanta’s Cityhood Movement Emerges
Ansan, South Korea
Duplitecture : 7 Splendid Replicas Of EU Cities In China
Amazon’s HQ2 project is stuck in the past
On streets with heavy traffic, residents have little joy and contentment in the area outside their front door. It is seen as where they leave the comfort of their home and enter the hostility of the world around them. Why bother taking care of it if they don’t spend time there?
Naples is building a metro station with timber wood. Green areas will surround the station the underground also intends to offer people a space to live and to connect with the rest of the city.
An afternoon in Genève
Lobbying and lawsuits: How ShotSpotter convinced Portland to spend big on gunshot detection
Construction On The First Linear Skyscraper
Before and After: Cheonggyechen, Seoul
Emil Bisttram - Metropolis ( "The House of God") (1929)
Denmark köpenhamn, Housing development ouside of trainstation
urban planning concepts
What can be done from an urban design standpoint to prevent cars from blocking other lanes of travel, like sidewalks and bike lanes
Once an eyesore with rampant garbage dumping, now an amphitheatre, working space
Participatory Design Examples
What would be the best way to get in contact with my local developers?
City Tree Biodiversity Helps Protect Urban Forests - And Our Health
Considering a Masters Degree in Urban Design - need opinions
Lyon France has many appealing public squares and/or parks...
Which is the best city in USA from a socially and cultural point of view, but also with some access to some nature around ?
So im a beginner urban designer and I made this design, for a no car, small neighborhood for 1200~ people, opinions
Just some offramps in stockholm
Planned City - La Plata, Argentina.
Bike Libraries Are Boosting Access To Bikes Across The U.S.
Wonderfully walkable Sewickley, Pennsylvania
Post office, somewhere in former Yugoslavia
I use AI to generate the landscape renderings, how do you think?
Montgomery County, MD Council Passes ZTA Reducing Setbacks for Cell Phone Antennas
Highway widening
Building height zoning
Urban design student, working on planning an expansion for an already urban intensified city, suggestions
Street art, no really art on the STREET
California Realtors apologize for role in racist housing
Amazing connecting of two 9-store building
Pretty or lazy?
Central stockholm sweden highway tunnel (12 lanes)
Communications + Graphic Design Career in Urban Planning and Design
Peggy Huang - on the CA ballot for judge. Here she is on a far right media outlet (Epoch Times) protecting single family zoning only, car centric infrastructure, and blocking new development. Ultra NIMBY-ism at work.
This junction in Gothenburg outside central station...
We Need More Housing—But Also More People Who Can Build More Housing
Master's Design Project Survey - Hello fellow Redditors, our group is working on a design solution that would implement modern robotics as a means of developing and maintaining green spaces in urban areas. Please take a minute to fill out this survey and help us make it happen!
You’ve been given a magic wand with the task to redevelop any existing us city in your image. Which city do you choose, and how do you redesign it?
Recommendations for rural design
How do you experience the "escape" of nature in your urban environment?
Gainesville Eliminates Single-Family Zoning
Breaking Up with the Seawall | Why our relationship with the Vancouver icon can’t last. And what could replace it
Burgos, a 15-minute city in Spain
Tmw a Lego city is better than your hometown
Anybody know why this is designed like this? (copenhagen Denmark)
Japan street sunset. From Love, Money, Rock'n'roll [by Arseniy Chebynkin]
The Emergence of Startup Cities | Privately owned cities are popping up all over the world, particularly the global south
Urban greenspace linked to lower crime risk across 301 major U.S. cities
California Needs More Housing—But Where?
What do you think of these 3 street designs I drew?
That TTCriders’ lane-painting stunt was a very good stunt | When people lose faith in government, they get frustrated. Some will do things like add their own temporary bus lanes — but others could turn nasty
Denver’s E-Bike Rebates Are So Hot They're Gone Within Minutes
From skyscrapers to studios: How the residential boom is transforming Downtown Pittsburgh
Why do I have to be a weirdo to bike across town just to get exercise?
The $50 Billion Mega Theme Park Dubai Announced To the Public - Dubailand
Why E-Bikes Could Change Everything
What do we know about pedal assist E-bikes? A scoping review to inform future directions
Australia's Proposed High-Speed Rail: The East Coast HSR
Interesting designs to rework typical suburban locations.
Sydney Olympic Park High School: A proposed "vertical school" for Sydney, Australia
Dose anyone know of any free fantasy rail map applications?
How much would a tram track cost in a hilly city
What If Bike Lanes Worked Better for the Disability Community? | Meet seven people with experiences of disability and ideas for making walking and cycling in cities more inclusive
New $200B Riyadh Metro Will Changes Riyadh More Than Ever
Australia is finally get a move on High-Speed Rail!
Q? | What functional urban design ideas are being implemented to help kids and adults keep active?
Wentworth Point, NSW: An Example of Mixed-Use Development (among other things)
Theoretical scenario: If Sydney's Tramway network (1861-1961) continued to exist.
Architectural Marvels: Spectacular Rail Stations Around the World (Part 1)
Sydney billboards that block pavements and the line of sight anger pedestrians, business owners
Any suggestions for a case study about a failed waterfront projects?
Poster for friends birthday
English vs French neighborhoods in Montréal.
Architecture Site Analysis and Mapping Templates
Carparks converted to pedestrian space on Dixon Street in Wellington, New Zealand.
This city of the FUTURE the middle of SAUDI ARABIA's desert in insane!
FLYOVER retrofitted into PEDESTRIAN OASIS in Seoul, South Korea 🇰🇷 (Seoullo 7017). Always on the look-out for nice urbanism stories, please share 🙏
I’m sure similar questions have been asked here but what software is used in this model from Portland BOT? I know Sketchup for the base but curious how to go about the color coded visualization. Thanks!!
Eco-Minded Publishing House Installs Beehives On HQ Roof - Can this be a new trend for urban living, having bees on your rooftop?
Growing the urban forest in the face of climate change
Hawaii, Vermont, Alaska, and Maine have all banned billboards. Should More Places Do The Same?
How to Build Public Spaces for Teen Girls
Best selling car in Italy vs USA.
Crazy how Montréal was able to completely transform their streets for a measly $12million dollars. I dare other cities to try this?
‘The American lawn feels irresponsible’: the LA homes ditching grass for drought-friendly gardens | With water a precious commodity in California, residents are turning to native plants – saving money without sacrificing beauty
Scientists Create Glow In The Dark Plants That Could Replace Streetlights In The Future
Hypothetical scenario
The movement to eradicate leaves from landscapes 🚫🍂🙏🇺🇸🇺🇸🇺🇸 IS PICKING UP STEAM thanks to our highlighting of the scourge of leaves in this movie and your vigilance in reporting 'Leaf Keepers' (basically terrorists) to the proper authorities 👮👮‍♀️👮🏻‍♂️. Thank you dear patriots 🇺🇸🇺🇸
What are some of your ideal ‘Main Street’ features?
What's with this massive expanse of empty road grids north west of Albuquerque? They're all named but there's practically no buildings out there. I take it they were made to facilitate Albuquerque's expanding suburbs but why were so many built so pre-emptively?
FREEWAY to GREENWAY in Seoul, South Korea 🇰🇷 (urbanist dream + heroic effort = Cheonggyecheon). Can anyone share similar projects?
urbanisme
what's the point of these white things suddenly added to the road?
What would Street Pedestrianization Survey look like?
Suggestions for youtube channel titles focused around bike infrastructure / urbanism?
Public transport Simulations - effect of reduced car use on inner city mobility?
The Importance of Cycling Signage and How to Do it Well
Recently visited a bar in Buffalo that's located what they're calling "Silo City" that's made entirely from repurposed materials from the area's industrial past
Car Washes - Design Standards
Rise Of Electric Vehicles Makes Good Planning More Crucial Than Ever
A deep look at Jaffa Street, Jerusalem, and why it's so good (video is Hebrew with English subtitles)
Pittsburgh's South Side Slopes. Mixed density neighborhood originally designed to be pedestrian oriented for mill workers. Some legacy commercial spaces cling to wooded the hillside with the houses. Many streets are only wide enough for one car.
Bikes, Not Self Driving Cars, Are The Technological Gateway To Urban Progress
Turning a ‘stroad’ into a street
Globe editorial: Why aren’t your kids walking to school?
Skepticism for an Auto-Dependent Future: Paris Marx’s new book makes case that promises of US transportation technology industry will fall short of needs of cities and the planet
Career change
Pittsburgh does mixed density so well. You can find row houses, flats, apartment complexes, and detached SFH all on the same street blended together nicely!
The 'spongy' cities of the future. Cities need to become more ‘spongy’. Auckland is leading the way.
High density without towers
Got my local municipality to re-stripe the advisory bike lanes!
How Detroit, Boston & Chicago are using public art for neighborhood revitalization
Riyadh Metro Project 2022- Insane Smart City Features
California, Connecticut and Tennessee selected for 2022 Complete Streets Leadership Academies
Would Bid Rent Theory Apply Differently To Different Urban Structures Due To The Incentives Given, And If So, How Will This Influence Planning?
Clever Low-Cost Way To Improve & Increase Biking In The City
Nolan Gray talks about his new book, “Arbitrary Lines: How Zoning Broke the American City and How to Fix It”
Cool Planning for a Hotter Future
should I do another degree in urban design when I already have a degree in urban planning?
NIMBY poster found in Edinburgh
Timber cities ‘could cut 100bn tons of CO2 emissions by 2100’
What could Hamilton learn from Geneva about road safety? | The Swiss city and Steeltown have more in common than you may think. But their approach to streets couldn’t be more different
E-scootering and Cycling in Melbourne, Australia - Research Project
There’s a water crisis. Why do we still have lawns?
MVRDV rooftop catalogue
Los Angeles THREW AWAY all their RED-LIGHT cameras?
New evidence shows planting around school playgrounds protects children from air pollution
What are your favorite design/infrastructure projects to visit in Western Europe?
Project Idea
A career in transportation/urban design or planning
My city, Delhi is redesigning its shitty car centric good for nothing roads, here's half of a wide ass road reclaimed
Rubbish! San Francisco’s $20,000 designer trash can struggles to contain trash
A tip from Europe: To build better rentals, rethink the corridors
[Bloomberg] What Happened When Minneapolis Ended Single-Family Zoning - The city’s path-breaking shift has brought a lot of national attention and, so far, fewer than 100 new housing units. Still, it’s a step.
City of Winnipeg turns to street art to calm traffic on cycling routes | $50K public art project a traffic calming measure; routes end Oct. 31
Riding the Mexico City Metro...Latin America's largest subway system!
One tree survived (Leidsche Rijn. The Netherlands)
Which Bachelor Degree should I study for a future in Urban Design?
A Denver man saw too many people standing at bus stops. So he built them a bench | Mobility and transit advocate uses scrap wood to construct the seating and delivers them himself
Secret People: Jacque Fresco - The man who started his own futuristic city
Close up - Dutch style countdown display Portland OR
Not sure where else to go to find transit details in cities.
Dutch style bicycle countdown to green in United States of America
US DOT Will Double the Nation’s Electric Bus Fleet (But It Will Still Be Tiny)
One of the numerous city canals in Leipzig, Germany
High-density Housings with Wide Pedestrian Walkways, Seoul, South Korea
Instead of escalating tensions in Toronto’s High Park, we should combat the myths that lead to road fatalities
Hello All, I am admittedly brand new to this community and urban design is a hobby and more of an art that I like to admire. I was just looking around, does anyone know more about this software and how effective it has been when implemented?
Tree in the middle of the bike lane (Buenos Aires, Argentina)
Car tunnel in the heart of Paris transformed as a pedestrian-bike-street art haven
Why Urban Areas Need Increased Access to Recycling
Decoding The Streets
The Ring in Vienna is 100+ years old and still going strong—lined with pedestrians, parks, and palatial state buildings, an UNESCO heritage site
Intersection near my house that literally could’ve been a roundabout. Infuriates me.
10 million trips made during Tampere tram's inaugural year
design software
Why are most bike lanes between car traffic and street parking?
I have not heard or seen (much of) this perspective in planning or design spaces
Is GIS a type of data science?
Here's how the status quo of car-centrism was created in 20th century USA:
‘Walking’ forest of 1,000 trees transforms Dutch city | Trees and forests
The Importance of Trails
Nature-based solutions generate greener urban renewal
Secret People: Aldous Huxley - Societal Management gone wrong!
Why Putting Solar Canopies on Parking Lots Is a Smart Green Move
Brasilia Residential Axis
Brick-by-brick: Facade Fables!
Instead of Just Buying American EVs, Let’s Buy an American Path Out of Car Dependency
U.S. Needs 4.3M More Apartments by 2035 to Address Demand, Deficit and Affordability
Urban designers out there!! Advice on Education to take for urban design (Bachelors & Masters). Also is this a profession you’d recommend?
Why Do Rich People Love Quiet? The sound of gentrification is silence.
Play Streets and Block Parties: Reimagining Residential Streets as Neighborhood Resources
How To Harness Cities’ Hidden Public Wealth | Making urban land a community asset could make cities more livable and equitable.
Why Neighborhoods and Small Businesses Thrive in Tokyo | The new book “Emergent Tokyo” looks at how the city was shaped not by disorder or grand design, but by the intermingling of small choices that create spontaneous patterns from the bottom up.
This heatwave is a reminder that grass lawns are terrible for the environment
What if people in the US just like single family houses?
CT needs a modern transit system to remain competitive and retain talent
Westlake Campus – Uniquely Detailed!
For high density populations, are townhouses or apartments better?
What if suburbs were first draft? Remote work, arrival of home-owning millennials and other forces can be opportunity to remake them for the better
'It’s our bridge': A night of selfies, Modelos, cops, dogs and a cat on the 6th Street Viaduct
How would you design the internal structure of this urban furniture device?
Is there a way to mix the pros of both urban and suburban areas into a single structure or design?
Why do people act like Europeans never need to use cars because of public transit?
A tale of two Dairy Queens: An example of car-centric design versus people-first design
Saudi Prince envisions new City called The Line
Help!! What are some urban design books/resources to help me get started before school starts??
Is 'car centrism' on a spectrum.
How can an individual submit a development proposal to a city?
Can this be rectified to bring back a street car to this city?
Urban park between some high-rises and under a metro. Great use of space.
Design vs Planning
Roads just got painted in Hollister, CA. Yes, this is real.
CDMK metal planter: sharp corner
The Queen Bee Biodiversity Contest. Inspired by Scotscape’s ‘Living Pillars’, the participants will be designing an outdoor multifunctional lamp post to increase pollination. It will include living plants (6m & 8m) and a wayfinder for the streets in London.....
Alternative Study Options
Big city noise pollution is harming our health | The are solutions cities can use to reduce harmful noise, mainly from cars and motorcycles, which mostly impact marginalized communities
Why Europe Feels More Accessible
Visited my friend in Arlington this weekend. Was impressed by the mixed use development and multi-modal transport options around!
"We spend our lives surrounded by the end products of other people's ideas, creativity, and determination; their lasting accomplishments have built the world around us. I love imagining the millions of decision points... while I examine somebody's work and ponder the complexities of their mind."
Train paradise 😍
If you are interested on energy analysis , thermal comfort and visual comfort analysis, please follow my YouTube channel . PART 1_ Ladybug Tools 1.4 ___How to simulate Thermal Comfort in an Office Building by Honeybee?
McMain Streets, Gentrification, and the Futility of Authenticity as Urbanism Becomes Mainstream
Sweltering Cities || Why extreme heat is killing Canadians in major cities and how climate change will make things worse
Nice Shades: Study Shows Passive Cooling Can Help in a Heat Wave
Suburban growth of Houston, TX
Most US cities underprepared for rising heat, study finds
After The Supreme Court Ruling, Here’s How Cities Can Lead the Fight Against Climate Change
What tiny towns in rural America can teach the cities about adaptation : NPR
Vienna—from u/CanYouEvenPhoto—Beautiful Sunset this evening. I hope everyone had a great start to their week!
California Density Law Didn’t Kill the Single-Family Neighborhood
Andres Duany on the Psychology of Urban Planning
Skills Needed / Job Change
Public water park. France.
Taco Bell Defy: Futuristic Fast Food
Blue Vibrations: DE Museum, Bodrum
Why are so many urbanists socialists?
Does the White House Need a ‘Zoning Czar’?
Local public mini-golf in the middle of a city park. France.
There are some valid criticisms to be made about Seaside - but as the seminal example of New Urbanism, and the architectural style it embodies - it has really aged beautifully.
How cities can incentivize development of more housing for people experiencing homelessness
Yellow covers to increase the visibility of bollards during an event.
This Rubbish Bin Moans And Talks Sexy To Combat Littering in Sweden
Pedestrian lights with integrated bike lights, and pedestrian lights with countdown have just been authorized in France July 5, 2022 !
I turn urban design and maps into art using GIS and laser-engravers-- here's one of Pittsburgh I recently finished.
Rethinking concert safety - Chicago Reader
Is this The Largest Residential Building in the World? | Falowiec | Gdań...
Originally posted to r/cityporn...
Why does this sub act like “good” urban planning makes countries egalitarian paradises?
An article on flânerie, a French term that refers to aimless strolling through an urban landscape (especially Paris)
Anders Engnell: We Need To Solve The Problem of the Car
Luminous road sign based on a street light model.
Highway underpasses can be useful if done right: here as an enlargement of the Rathaus Steglitz S-Bahn station building in Berlin
Creating a community-owned biodiverse park with natural swimming ponds
Female Trees
Why does this sub act like cities before the 1940s were perfect?
green houses in berlin
Honestly...can we drop the "we're not building enuf" meme? Can we focus on "somebody" has created way too many $'s and they have leaked into all sorts of asset classes (not bonds) and created terrible bubbles.
Toronto wants to kill the smart city forever | The city wants to get right what Sidewalk Labs got so wrong
Research project Service Design on Air Quality and Micromobility
Dialing Back The Noise In The City Of Din | A growing movement of artists, designers and city planners is trying to reconsider urban noise not as a ubiquitous nuisance, but as a positive building block for cities where people want to be.
Puerto Nariño, a 100% car-free town in the middle of Colombian Amazon [OC]
Thoughts on National Mall? History in Video Description BTW
The French Aximum Aluxe is the only traffic light range that got a curved contrast frame.
After California got rid of R1 zoning, has there been any significant removal of single family, detached houses in favor of higher density building? Or have the NIMBYs kept stopping it?
Did someone say bike lanes
Colourful crosswalk, France.
Hoboken Hasn’t Had a Traffic Death in 4 Years. What’s It Doing Right?
VoloPort Concept - Modular eVTOL Vertiport - Departure and Arrival Facility for Air Taxis and Drones
Ecologist Calls for Restoring Nature In Cities to Protect Against Climate Change
Evolution of the pedestrian pictograms of the Silec Atlas traffic light range (then Sagem Atlas) produced between 1988 and 2000. Depending on the time and the lighting, if it is incandescent lamps, fluorescent tubes or LED.
The Most American Form of Architecture Isn’t Going Anywhere | A new book challenges the dominant narrative that malls are dying
this public light in spain
Why does this sub like Tram lines more than Bus lines?
L.A. needs 90,000 trees to battle extreme heat. Will residents step up to plant them?
What if all your windows got blocked by a super-friendly landlord next door?
America Always Gets This Wrong (when building transit)
Belgium TRAMWAY Crossing light.
Traffic light integrated into a metal box with a sign + a light under it for the pedestrian crossing. From France.
This thing in Lancaster. I don’t think it is ‘supposed’ to look like this but I like it.
I made a set of urban design mapping templates
Installation in the Beaux-Art Museum Lille
Hoboken Hasn’t Had a Traffic Death in 4 Years. What’s It Doing Right?
Buffalo, New York
Cities For People: How Paris & Barcelona Learned Urban Planning From Groningen
As US Road Deaths Rise, France Is Safer Than Ever. Why?
This small button activate the sound system of this bus stop for blind people. Saying what buses and when they arrive. France.
'Cardiff's central square a vast, concrete expanse with absolutely no features, no greenery'
Dear cyclist: we don’t care if you live or die. San Leandro CA
Japan makes more space for people by using automated, underground bicycle parking
A 9-year old’s evaluation of an American intersection. X’s indicate where they were almost hit by cars.
Star fountain, normally the water slide around the tube.
When Cities Made Monuments to Traffic Deaths
In my city, made by a local collective. It's SO much better !
Glass and ETFE (plastic) canopies shelter pedestrian streets in Singapore
Throwing shade at L.A.: USC researcher measures impact of trees, or the lack of them — USC spatial scientist John Wilson discusses the benefits of more trees in the urban core, the differences between Beverly Hills and Boyle Heights, and how trees will shape L.A.’s future.
What are some relatively current news stories regarding megaprojects or controversial construction?
Advice: career panic before grad school
List of interesting subreddits you should join!
A steampunk city information sign! Just need to press one of the buttons to turn the light on! From France.
The End of the Millennial Lifestyle Subsidy (Why Urban Living has gotten so expensive)
Thery Hindrick "Ville Nouvelle" range of traffic lights, from the 70s ! France.
NEW MODERATOR 👋
Phoenix a suburb paradise if you wanted to walk to a store or something and live in the middle of a neighborhood area walking takes for ever and need car. Yes it’s hot but on warm weather I’ll rather drive but during the colder months man the weather is beautiful to walk anywhere.
Good public transportation
How city planners are using spaces once designed for cars only
City map dispenser, abandoned in a street of Dunkirk (France). It's integrated into the advertising screen.
The Collage House Build by Adding Recycled Doors and Windows
Private vs. public sector jobs
work desk pin ups
Dingbats: LA's Most Iconic Illegal Apartment Buildings
1h Webcast by Strong Towns Engineer on road design.
The ghosts of L.A.’s unbuilt freeways — a wide median here, a stubby endpoint there
Interesting (UK-based) projects of data driven urban design ?
Research Survey - Urbanism & Aesthetics
Reconstruction of Cities on the example of Berlin (5min Questionnaire)
AutoCAD for Urban Infrastructure?
Remote control used in France by blind people to activate the sound system of pedestrian traffic lights.
The luxury of Asia’s malls is no substitute for genuine public spaces
Training classes for street redesign in Photoshop?
Structural/Civil Engineer wanting to pivot to Urban Design Career
When Cars Kill | A boy’s death launches a movement to end pedestrian and cyclist fatalities in New York City and beyond
In big cities, guns bring fear—not freedom
Correlating vehicle miles traveled to transit and/or bike&ped investment
Urban design: 1919-35; 1979-92 and 2015+
The status quo is dangerous
Couple's court win forces small Ontario town to revisit restrictions on naturalized lawns
Interview with Leon Krier founder of New Urbanism
Some interesting things around LA :)
Will MVRDV’s Rotterdam Rooftop Walk be a Productive Proto?
Interesting and complex lamppost design.
Large trees are essential for healthy cities
Parking Lot Design Efficiency
KADF Conference center – Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
Calling for help with a project!
Urban Designer Job classified under which category in ONS Occupation Coding Tool (UK)?
Should I be concerned that the rail line I live beside has 80 year old ties
Gentrification and development
New direction signs design in France, "Via Linea" made in collaboration with architects. It's specially made so no screws are visible.
Putting Redlines in the Green: Economic Revitalization Through Innovative Neighborhood Markets
Solar panels could be on all Europe's public buildings by 2029
The Human-Street Interface by Studio Civiliti
What's the best color for bike lanes ?
Thoughts on parking garages as a concept?
How could a car dependent city be saved?
Growing up in America you never realize what most of the world's sees as weird.
Job prospect of Urban Design MArch at UCL for an Indian?
France is one of the only country in the world that use an italic font for it's road signs.
How can I become a urban designer?
Planning for sojourn quality...
Oh what's that? Not a single soul wants to sit in the NFT lookin ass plastic "chairs" at the shadeless downtown astroturf patch? So weird, how could we have predicted this...
Confort town, an old industrial site in Kyiv built in response to brutalist soviet era apartments buildings.
Size of a French street light (Mazda Estoril) vs a banana.
The top 6 most sold street lanterns in France!
I Don't Exercise (my city does that for me) - Not Just Bikes
From Cyberpunk to Solarpunk: Technics and the Cities of the Future
Has anyone ever seen balconies being used?
Street improvement in Mölndal, Sweden. 2016 vs. 2021
Building Better Light Rail
Why Every Main Street Looks The Same
Michelin Signs from the 30/50s transformed into a flower pot.
Barcelona now vs in 1990
Architects, activists propose another plan for Brent Spence Bridge project - Cincinnati Business Courier
technical solutions for smarter city design
The harsh realities of American urban infrastructure
Bench book design
Would it be at all possible to have higher density buildings that fit in with lower density architectural styles?
Cool looking street lights in northern France.
Over and over again I enjoy the Washington city grid envisioned by the French architect Pierre Charles L'Enfant, the city layout was implemented exactly in accordance with L'Enfant plan of the city of Washington - with its grandure diagonal avenues and green zones.
How do we solve traffic?
Canada geese causing problems for cities as experts struggle to reduce populations
This adaptive reuse enhances period flavour!
1950s "caution to children" French concrete road sign.
Which app is this?
Don't let pictures taken in bad weather with mud and fog let you think communist blocks are dystopian hell
Holy sh*t! ohio launches their new ODOT design manual
Rain gardens reclaiming space stolen by cars.
How do you feel about Parking buildings?
Metal equipment that allow cyclists to stand up straight while being stationary waiting for the green light. Spain.
Animated Powerpoint Timeline Slide Design for Architecture Site Analysis | Free Template
Is there any comprehensive tutorial (paid or unpaid) on starting on urban and landscape design on adobe?
We need to rethink (and shrink) roads, not build more highways
Urban designers: are we doing enough to combat light pollution?
Grad programs with Latin American cities/countries focus?
Bicycle parking entrance, Bruges, Belgium.
Greg lost his home in the Black Summer bushfires. Now he’s building one that’s disaster-proof
A very detailed document outlining the plans for a new district in Freiburg, Germany. Its a great example of the latest and greatest in modern urban design. Even if you don't speak German its quite interesting.
Old town, Pirenópiolis, Brazil - love this scale and the stone streets...
Ang Mo Kio 1995
Sutcliffe: Ottawa's downtown will never be the same
More Freiburg Bächle
Vintage Michelin reinforced concrete road signs in France, 1967.
Plate with the district map in the street.
Subtly cooling and calming, the Bächle in Freiburg, Germany
Can streets be lively in the winter?
A second chance for Detroit: the urban renaissance of the "Motor City" in ten spots
Glass recuperation for recycling, France.
Undergrad Degrees for Urban Planning
Community Input Is Bad, Actually | Angry neighborhood associations have the power to halt the construction of vital infrastructure. It doesn’t have to be this way.
How to deal with a road through a dense residential/commercial area?
Is the urban planning community near unanimous on the view that single-zone development, urban sprawl, non-walkable cities are bad?
The high and low points of America’s streets
Mechanical display, parts switching from yellow to black, always nice to see.
This Skyscraper Reuses 68% of an Existing Tower
Looking for a book
From hub of the future to mushy mediocrity: How Toronto’s East Harbour development comes up short
Advice for opposing a historic district designation in my neighborhood
Researchers found that approximately 1 in 4 lives lost to extreme heat could be saved in Los Angeles if the county planted more trees and utilized more reflective surfaces.
This wonderful bike and pedestrian underpass in Tucson, AZ.
How to obtain a map of the topography of a 1400ha area
Spanish for Zoning and Planning?
POV:Redditor who plays too many videogames and has heard once about the walled city of Kowloon
Wealthy California Cities Put Up Fierce Resistance to New Duplex Housing Law
Different yield sign designs?
The death of the gas station | As EVs hit the road, gas stations will have to adapt or risk going out of business
inside vs outside
