 The flight service will help connect the state capital of Uttar Pradesh with eastern UP cities like Azamgarh, Mirzapur, Varanasi and more  Domestic carrier IndiGo Airlines launched its flight service between Lucknow to Varanasi on Thursday. The service was inaugurated by the Uttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The flight service will complete the journey between Varanasi and Lucknow in just 55 minutes. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the flight held at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, the Chief Minister described the launch of the flight to connect the state capital with the spiritual capital of the nation as "much-needed" and a "commendable effort". He added, “This service will fulfil the commitment of the Prime Minister's Udaan Scheme, which aims to allow even the common man wearing slippers to travel by air.”The Chief Minister expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Civil Aviation of the Government of India and IndiGo Airlines on behalf of the people of the state. He stated that the demand of entrepreneurs, businessmen, representatives, enlightened society, and pilgrims visiting the Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi was being met today with the launch of the air service between Varanasi and Lucknow.. CM Yogi further stated, “Considering this progress, it was crucial for Varanasi to be connected with Lucknow through air. In the year 2016-17, Varanasi Airport saw only 19 lakh passengers in a year, but today, in 2022–23, this number has grown to more than 25 lakh passengers”, he added.The IndiGo flight service between Lucknow and Varanasi has been started for three days a week, namely Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, for now. The IndiGo flight with flight number 6E-7319 will depart from Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow at 2:20 PM and will arrive at Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi at 3:30 PM after a 1-hour and 10-minute journey. Similarly, the IndiGo flight with flight number 6E-7321 will depart from Varanasi Airport on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 4:05 PM and will arrive at Lucknow Airport 55 minutes later.On this occasion, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation General Dr. VK Singh, joined through video conferencing from New Delhi. During the program, State Tourism Minister Jaiveer Singh, Cabinet Minister Anil Rajbhar, Minister of State (Independent Charge) Ravindra Jaiswal, Dr. Dayashankar Mishra Dayalu, Chief Secretary of the state Durgashankar Mishra, Director-General of Police Vijay Kumar, Principal Secretary (Home) Sanjay Prasad, CEO of IndiGo Peter Elbers, Special Director of IndiGo R.K. Singh, and Chief Minister's advisor Awanish Awasthi were present. Domestic carrier IndiGo Airlines launched its flight service between Lucknow to Varanasi on Thursday. The service was inaugurated by the Uttar Pradesh chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The flight service will complete the journey between Varanasi and Lucknow in just 55 minutes. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the flight held at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, the Chief Minister described the launch of the flight to connect the state capital with the spiritual capital of the nation as "much-needed" and a "commendable effort". He added, “This service will fulfil the commitment of the Prime Minister's Udaan Scheme, which aims to allow even the common man wearing slippers to travel by air.” The Chief Minister expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Civil Aviation of the Government of India and IndiGo Airlines on behalf of the people of the state. He stated that the demand of entrepreneurs, businessmen, representatives, enlightened society, and pilgrims visiting the Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi was being met today with the launch of the air service between Varanasi and Lucknow.. CM Yogi further stated, “Considering this progress, it was crucial for Varanasi to be connected with Lucknow through air. In the year 2016-17, Varanasi Airport saw only 19 lakh passengers in a year, but today, in 2022–23, this number has grown to more than 25 lakh passengers”, he added. The IndiGo flight service between Lucknow and Varanasi has been started for three days a week, namely Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, for now. The IndiGo flight with flight number 6E-7319 will depart from Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow at 2:20 PM and will arrive at Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi at 3:30 PM after a 1-hour and 10-minute journey. Similarly, the IndiGo flight with flight number 6E-7321 will depart from Varanasi Airport on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 4:05 PM and will arrive at Lucknow Airport 55 minutes later. On this occasion, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation General Dr. VK Singh, joined through video conferencing from New Delhi. During the program, State Tourism Minister Jaiveer Singh, Cabinet Minister Anil Rajbhar, Minister of State (Independent Charge) Ravindra Jaiswal, Dr. Dayashankar Mishra Dayalu, Chief Secretary of the state Durgashankar Mishra, Director-General of Police Vijay Kumar, Principal Secretary (Home) Sanjay Prasad, CEO of IndiGo Peter Elbers, Special Director of IndiGo R.K. Singh, and Chief Minister's advisor Awanish Awasthi were present.               
 Only nine of the 185 projects in total, totaling Rs 22.56 billion have been completed  According to recent assessments by Niti Aayog, Assam's Guwahati is one of the least successful smart cities in the nation. Only nine of the 185 projects in total, totaling Rs 22.56 billion have been completed. The research conducted by Niti Aayog shows that Guwahati's disappointing performance is not an outlier. Shillong, Aizawl, and Imphal are just a few of the Northeastern cities that have had difficulty advancing their individual smart city efforts significantly. The same can be said for towns like Amaravati, Diu, Greater Warangal, Kavaratti, Port Blair, and Puducherry, which struggle and are among the worst-performing metropolitan regions.The report also notes that 32 smart cities have surpassed their initial project completion goals, some of them by a factor of four. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic's challenges and other political, regional, and local land and labour problems, a remarkable Rs 390.85 billion worth of projects were successfully finished across the country in the previous year.The Ministry of Urban Development gave Guwahati a cash award worth Rs 3.96 billion, however it wasn't utilised till 2022. The five-year Smart City project in Guwahati has a total budget of Rs 22.56 billion, with contributions from the federal government and the state government of Rs 5 billion each anticipated. Urban local governments were expected to use a variety of methods to earn the remaining funds, including user fees, beneficiary fees, land monetisation, liens, and loans. According to recent assessments by Niti Aayog, Assam's Guwahati is one of the least successful smart cities in the nation. Only nine of the 185 projects in total, totaling Rs 22.56 billion have been completed. The research conducted by Niti Aayog shows that Guwahati's disappointing performance is not an outlier. Shillong, Aizawl, and Imphal are just a few of the Northeastern cities that have had difficulty advancing their individual smart city efforts significantly. The same can be said for towns like Amaravati, Diu, Greater Warangal, Kavaratti, Port Blair, and Puducherry, which struggle and are among the worst-performing metropolitan regions. The report also notes that 32 smart cities have surpassed their initial project completion goals, some of them by a factor of four. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic's challenges and other political, regional, and local land and labour problems, a remarkable Rs 390.85 billion worth of projects were successfully finished across the country in the previous year. The Ministry of Urban Development gave Guwahati a cash award worth Rs 3.96 billion, however it wasn't utilised till 2022. The five-year Smart City project in Guwahati has a total budget of Rs 22.56 billion, with contributions from the federal government and the state government of Rs 5 billion each anticipated. Urban local governments were expected to use a variety of methods to earn the remaining funds, including user fees, beneficiary fees, land monetisation, liens, and loans.             
 The facility was launched by Vikas Kumar, Managing Director, DMRC from the Rajiv Chowk Metro Station  The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Thursday that passengers can use their smartphones to pay for tokens at ticket booths and customer service desks using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), just like they do at marketplaces, markets, grocery stores, and other establishments.The facility was launched by Vikas Kumar, Managing Director, DMRC from the Rajiv Chowk Metro Station. Jean-Marc Reynaud, MD, Revenue Collection Systems, France SAS, Abhay Sharma, Chief Business Officer, Paytm Payments Bank Limited and other senior DMRC officials were also present.The DMRC has previously allowed UPI to be used to purchase tokens. In 2018, the service was first implemented in the networks serving Noida and Ghaziabad, and it was then expanded to more than 125 metro stations throughout the Delhi network. In a week, it will be made accessible on all of the remaining stations.Recently, DMRC also launched common mobility cards and allowed token purchase through net banking as well as QR codes.The commuters can select the service at DMRC ticket vending machine, where passengers are prompted to choose the type of service they wish to avail, such as purchasing a single journey QR ticket or recharging their smart card.Once the service is selected, the ticket vending machine provides various payment options. Among these, passengers can opt to pay using Unified Payments Interface (UPI).After the passenger selects UPI as the preferred payment method, a QR code will be displayed on the ticket vending machine’s screen. Passengers can effortlessly scan the displayed QR code using any UPI-enabled mobile app within the specified time period.After scanning the QR code, the passenger proceeds to complete the payment using their UPI app within the specified time period.As per the metro officials, by adding this facility they are making it easier for the consumers to pay for their metro tickets, specially during rush hours. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Thursday that passengers can use their smartphones to pay for tokens at ticket booths and customer service desks using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), just like they do at marketplaces, markets, grocery stores, and other establishments. The facility was launched by Vikas Kumar, Managing Director, DMRC from the Rajiv Chowk Metro Station. Jean-Marc Reynaud, MD, Revenue Collection Systems, France SAS, Abhay Sharma, Chief Business Officer, Paytm Payments Bank Limited and other senior DMRC officials were also present. The DMRC has previously allowed UPI to be used to purchase tokens. In 2018, the service was first implemented in the networks serving Noida and Ghaziabad, and it was then expanded to more than 125 metro stations throughout the Delhi network. In a week, it will be made accessible on all of the remaining stations. Recently, DMRC also launched common mobility cards and allowed token purchase through net banking as well as QR codes. The commuters can select the service at DMRC ticket vending machine, where passengers are prompted to choose the type of service they wish to avail, such as purchasing a single journey QR ticket or recharging their smart card. Once the service is selected, the ticket vending machine provides various payment options. Among these, passengers can opt to pay using Unified Payments Interface (UPI). After the passenger selects UPI as the preferred payment method, a QR code will be displayed on the ticket vending machine’s screen. Passengers can effortlessly scan the displayed QR code using any UPI-enabled mobile app within the specified time period. After scanning the QR code, the passenger proceeds to complete the payment using their UPI app within the specified time period. As per the metro officials, by adding this facility they are making it easier for the consumers to pay for their metro tickets, specially during rush hours.               
 The project will be executed by NTPC Green Energy, a fully-owned subsidiary of the NTPC, which will bear the complete cost of Rs 160 crore  The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday has approved a proposal to set up a 40 megawatt (MW) solar plant in Ayodhya district of UP. The plant is expected to generate 70.08 million units of green energy every year to meet the entire district's electricity demands. The project will be executed by NTPC Green Energy, a fully-owned subsidiary of the NTPC, which will bear the complete cost of Rs 160 crore. The state government will incur Rs 9 crore on transmission of the electricity generated by the solar plant.As per the information, 165.10 acres of land at the villages of Manja Rampur Halwara and Manhja Sarairashi Pargana-Haveli Awdh in the Sadar tehsil of Ayodhya have been designated by the state government for the construction of the solar project. The solar power plant's energy output will be purchased by UPPCL. The project is part of the Uttar Pradesh Solar Power Policy-2022.Under the policy, the state government will provide land to public sector undertakings for solar power projects at the rate of Rs one per acre per annum. The land will be provided to private players for solar plants at the rate of Rs 15,000 per acre per annum for a maximum of 30 years. The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday has approved a proposal to set up a 40 megawatt (MW) solar plant in Ayodhya district of UP. The plant is expected to generate 70.08 million units of green energy every year to meet the entire district's electricity demands. The project will be executed by NTPC Green Energy, a fully-owned subsidiary of the NTPC, which will bear the complete cost of Rs 160 crore. The state government will incur Rs 9 crore on transmission of the electricity generated by the solar plant. As per the information, 165.10 acres of land at the villages of Manja Rampur Halwara and Manhja Sarairashi Pargana-Haveli Awdh in the Sadar tehsil of Ayodhya have been designated by the state government for the construction of the solar project. The solar power plant's energy output will be purchased by UPPCL. The project is part of the Uttar Pradesh Solar Power Policy-2022. Under the policy, the state government will provide land to public sector undertakings for solar power projects at the rate of Rs one per acre per annum. The land will be provided to private players for solar plants at the rate of Rs 15,000 per acre per annum for a maximum of 30 years.                
 The decision comes with a plan to ensure that this is the most accessible public transport mode in the city  In a cabinet meeting presided over by the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the Telangana cabinet has approved a Rs 60,000 plan for the expansion of the metro rail network in Hyderabad over the next three to four years. The state’s Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao briefed the media after the cabinet meeting. He said that the state government has taken a decision to expand the metro rail routes on a large scale to bolster public transport in the city. He said the metro rail expansion would be done on many routes that connect Hyderabad to its outskirts in several directions. He noted that the Chief Minister has already laid the foundation stone for metro rail between Raidurgam to the airport.He further added, “Altogether, the cabinet approved expansion of metro rail with Rs 60,000 crores in addition to the 101 kms taken up earlier. The CM directed our municipal department to complete this project in the coming three-four years.” The municipal department and the metro train authorities will soon present proposals. Rama Rao expressed his expectation that the central government will provide assistance with the project's implementation, as it had in other cities. He did, however, add that if the Centre is unable to assist, the state government will take it on itself.“We hope they (NDA government at the Centre) will cooperate with us. If this government does not help us, a coalition government would come anyway after 2024. The role of BRS would be crucial in that. We are confident that we will achieve it there,” he said. In a cabinet meeting presided over by the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the Telangana cabinet has approved a Rs 60,000 plan for the expansion of the metro rail network in Hyderabad over the next three to four years. The state’s Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao briefed the media after the cabinet meeting. He said that the state government has taken a decision to expand the metro rail routes on a large scale to bolster public transport in the city. He said the metro rail expansion would be done on many routes that connect Hyderabad to its outskirts in several directions. He noted that the Chief Minister has already laid the foundation stone for metro rail between Raidurgam to the airport. He further added, “Altogether, the cabinet approved expansion of metro rail with Rs 60,000 crores in addition to the 101 kms taken up earlier. The CM directed our municipal department to complete this project in the coming three-four years.” The municipal department and the metro train authorities will soon present proposals. Rama Rao expressed his expectation that the central government will provide assistance with the project's implementation, as it had in other cities. He did, however, add that if the Centre is unable to assist, the state government will take it on itself. “We hope they (NDA government at the Centre) will cooperate with us. If this government does not help us, a coalition government would come anyway after 2024. The role of BRS would be crucial in that. We are confident that we will achieve it there,” he said.               
 The idea is to prevent long-distance buses from entering the city by allocating dedicated places at the nakas, which are furnished with amenities like parking spaces, dining establishments, restaurants, bus bays, CNG pumps, charging stations, and enquiry and ticketing counters  The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is planning to convert its octroi nakas at Dahisar and Mankhurd into smart transport and commercial hubs. The estimated development cost for Dahisar is around Rs 992 crore and Mankhurd is approximately Rs 240 crore.As per reports, the BMC intends to hire a consultant to assist in converting the octroi nakas into effective transportation and commercial hubs. The idea is to prevent long-distance buses from entering the city by allocating dedicated places at the nakas, which are furnished with amenities like parking spaces, dining establishments, restaurants, bus bays, CNG pumps, charging stations, and enquiry and ticketing counters. Through a variety of modalities, including BEST buses, trains, the metro, and other private and public transportation choices, the transportation hub will offer last-mile connectivity.According to the BMC report, a survey will be carried out to evaluate the routes and quantities of state and privately operated long-distance buses in the city before consulting the transport hub consultant. Before making any decisions, a market analysis for mixed development projects will also be done. The BMC will also ask visitors for their opinions before considering offering cheap transit lodging and hostel services for tourists and those on the go.The main goals of this hub development are to promote economic opportunities and reduce city transportation congestion. The BMC intends to use the feedback from these hubs to enhance its services even more. A craft and culture hub displaying Indian art forms, an art gallery, and an exhibition banquet hall will also receive special attention. Buses arriving via the Pune and Goa routes will stop at Mankhurd, while those coming from the northern part will stop at Dahisar. The BMC might also look at the prospect of similarly converting other octroi nakas. Dahisar Octroi Naka covers an area of 18,869 square metres, whilst Mankhurd Octroi Naka covers an area of 29,774 square metres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is planning to convert its octroi nakas at Dahisar and Mankhurd into smart transport and commercial hubs. The estimated development cost for Dahisar is around Rs 992 crore and Mankhurd is approximately Rs 240 crore. As per reports, the BMC intends to hire a consultant to assist in converting the octroi nakas into effective transportation and commercial hubs. The idea is to prevent long-distance buses from entering the city by allocating dedicated places at the nakas, which are furnished with amenities like parking spaces, dining establishments, restaurants, bus bays, CNG pumps, charging stations, and enquiry and ticketing counters. Through a variety of modalities, including BEST buses, trains, the metro, and other private and public transportation choices, the transportation hub will offer last-mile connectivity. According to the BMC report, a survey will be carried out to evaluate the routes and quantities of state and privately operated long-distance buses in the city before consulting the transport hub consultant. Before making any decisions, a market analysis for mixed development projects will also be done. The BMC will also ask visitors for their opinions before considering offering cheap transit lodging and hostel services for tourists and those on the go. The main goals of this hub development are to promote economic opportunities and reduce city transportation congestion. The BMC intends to use the feedback from these hubs to enhance its services even more. A craft and culture hub displaying Indian art forms, an art gallery, and an exhibition banquet hall will also receive special attention. Buses arriving via the Pune and Goa routes will stop at Mankhurd, while those coming from the northern part will stop at Dahisar. The BMC might also look at the prospect of similarly converting other octroi nakas. Dahisar Octroi Naka covers an area of 18,869 square metres, whilst Mankhurd Octroi Naka covers an area of 29,774 square metres.             
 The smart city agency has also begun mapping everyday users in various locations to enhance accessibility in surrounding areas  Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL) has decided to update its city Wi-Fi service by providing greater speed and additional download limits to residents on a daily basis after failing to attract enough customers to it as part of the Smart City Mission in the state capital. The smart city agency has also begun mapping everyday users in various locations to enhance accessibility in surrounding areas. Following the Covid-19 pandemic, the agency that had suspended the service reinstated it fully at 1,550 access points spread throughout more than 500 locations in the city.  BSCL said the high-speed service coupled with a higher download limit has started attracting more users. Following the move, the daily usage limit which used to be around 10 to 15 GB has now exceeded 100 GB. Similarly, the number of users that used to be in the range of 250 to 300 has multiplied to nearly 1,200 a day and the number is increasing, sources added.Eight to ten high user points, including Lingaraj station, OUAT SBI branch, Satya Nagar, Ganga Nagar Square, and Master Canteen, have been found based on the mapping of usage in recent years. In order to boost usage and provide smooth connectivity to the populace, the BSCL official added, "We have decided to activate 250 more Wi-Fi points at the identified locations in the coming days." With BSCL offering a recharge facility following the consumption of free data limit to users, officials hope of earning revenue out of it. The recharge numbers at present, however, are negligible. Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL) has decided to update its city Wi-Fi service by providing greater speed and additional download limits to residents on a daily basis after failing to attract enough customers to it as part of the Smart City Mission in the state capital. The smart city agency has also begun mapping everyday users in various locations to enhance accessibility in surrounding areas. Following the Covid-19 pandemic, the agency that had suspended the service reinstated it fully at 1,550 access points spread throughout more than 500 locations in the city. BSCL said the high-speed service coupled with a higher download limit has started attracting more users. Following the move, the daily usage limit which used to be around 10 to 15 GB has now exceeded 100 GB. Similarly, the number of users that used to be in the range of 250 to 300 has multiplied to nearly 1,200 a day and the number is increasing, sources added. Eight to ten high user points, including Lingaraj station, OUAT SBI branch, Satya Nagar, Ganga Nagar Square, and Master Canteen, have been found based on the mapping of usage in recent years. In order to boost usage and provide smooth connectivity to the populace, the BSCL official added, "We have decided to activate 250 more Wi-Fi points at the identified locations in the coming days." With BSCL offering a recharge facility following the consumption of free data limit to users, officials hope of earning revenue out of it. The recharge numbers at present, however, are negligible.                
 NDMC member Kuljeet Chahal recently informed the media that the civic body will encourage the implementation of grid-connected solar plants  In order to totally switch to renewable energy, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) plans to implement a new solar policy, according to the NDMC authorities.NDMC member Kuljeet Chahal recently informed the media that the civic body will encourage the implementation of grid-connected solar plants. "New Delhi Municipal Council has embarked upon an ambitious journey of shifting to 100 per cent renewable energy.”Chahal added in an official statement, “In addition to the broader arrangement of tying up with the renewable energy sources it is also incumbent upon the council to consider all possible potential of solar energy generation within its jurisdiction." According to him, the NDMC would advocate for the installation of solar power systems with net metering on all current, future, or proposed structures, including those owned or operated by the government, including fire stations, hospitals, schools, and government hospitals. Any solar energy system with a capacity of 1 KWp or more will be covered by the policy. It is applicable to all NDMC region electricity users. In the press conference, Chahal stated that the NDMC's major source of renewable energy should be rooftop solar farms. "The NDMC area enjoys about 300 sunny days annually. There are typically eight to ten hours of sunshine per day.Individual households, offices, commercial establishments, institutions, and residential complexes will be eligible for project capacity of a minimum of 1KW or more," he said. In order to totally switch to renewable energy, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) plans to implement a new solar policy, according to the NDMC authorities. NDMC member Kuljeet Chahal recently informed the media that the civic body will encourage the implementation of grid-connected solar plants. "New Delhi Municipal Council has embarked upon an ambitious journey of shifting to 100 per cent renewable energy.” Chahal added in an official statement, “In addition to the broader arrangement of tying up with the renewable energy sources it is also incumbent upon the council to consider all possible potential of solar energy generation within its jurisdiction." According to him, the NDMC would advocate for the installation of solar power systems with net metering on all current, future, or proposed structures, including those owned or operated by the government, including fire stations, hospitals, schools, and government hospitals. Any solar energy system with a capacity of 1 KWp or more will be covered by the policy. It is applicable to all NDMC region electricity users. In the press conference, Chahal stated that the NDMC's major source of renewable energy should be rooftop solar farms. "The NDMC area enjoys about 300 sunny days annually. There are typically eight to ten hours of sunshine per day. Individual households, offices, commercial establishments, institutions, and residential complexes will be eligible for project capacity of a minimum of 1KW or more," he said.                 
 According to Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), as many as 421 cases had been pending with them where residents of the city had not received their subsidy despite installing solar power plants  The Central government has cleared pending subsidy dues for Chandigarh UT administration, amounting to Rs 3.25 crore, to be paid to the residents who had installed rooftop solar power plants in 2019.The Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) had drafted and sent the case for the pending subsidy due for residents, according to details in a communication that administration officials in Chandigarh received on Monday.Due to a lack of available finances, CREST officials have so far been unable to compensate UT inhabitants for the installation of solar power plants. According to CREST, as many as 421 cases had been pending with them where residents of the city had not received their subsidy despite installing solar power plants.According to officials, the Centre increased the subsidy amount to 40 per cent for residents installing solar plants of up to 3 kWp on their rooftops in August 2019 in order to promote green energy in Chandigarh. The sum will be released starting next month, as per the officials. They stated that the subsidy would be released to house owners in the first week of August with the Centre today having cleared Rs 3.25 crore for disbursal. The Centre's Monday decision brought a sigh of relief to a number of UT residents who had been visiting CREST's office for the previous four years in order to receive their promised dues.According to existing regulations, residents were required to pay the whole cost of solar power plants before receiving the subsidy amount, which was to be deposited to their accounts within a month.Among all the states and UTs in the nation, Chandigarh is now the first to have implemented the RESCO concept. A third party currently constructs, runs, and transfers solar power plants on customers' properties under the Renewable Energy Services Company (RESCO) model, in addition to paying for the system's installation and commissioning costs. In accordance with the model, the electricity produced by these power plants is initially to be supplied to and consumed by the homeowner, with any excess electricity being fed into the public grid.According to the terms and conditions, homeowners must provide the company space on their rooftops in exchange for electricity throughout the build-operate-transfer period at a cost of Rs 3.23 per unit.This model was approved in January of this year after a petition was submitted to the JERC by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), which has been designated as an executing agency for renewable energy projects of the Department of Science and Technology, UT.Under the new model, the house owner will have to provide nearly 500 sq ft of space for the installation of a 5kWp solar plant. The Central government has cleared pending subsidy dues for Chandigarh UT administration, amounting to Rs 3.25 crore, to be paid to the residents who had installed rooftop solar power plants in 2019. The Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) had drafted and sent the case for the pending subsidy due for residents, according to details in a communication that administration officials in Chandigarh received on Monday. Due to a lack of available finances, CREST officials have so far been unable to compensate UT inhabitants for the installation of solar power plants. According to CREST, as many as 421 cases had been pending with them where residents of the city had not received their subsidy despite installing solar power plants. According to officials, the Centre increased the subsidy amount to 40 per cent for residents installing solar plants of up to 3 kWp on their rooftops in August 2019 in order to promote green energy in Chandigarh. The sum will be released starting next month, as per the officials. They stated that the subsidy would be released to house owners in the first week of August with the Centre today having cleared Rs 3.25 crore for disbursal. The Centre's Monday decision brought a sigh of relief to a number of UT residents who had been visiting CREST's office for the previous four years in order to receive their promised dues. According to existing regulations, residents were required to pay the whole cost of solar power plants before receiving the subsidy amount, which was to be deposited to their accounts within a month. Among all the states and UTs in the nation, Chandigarh is now the first to have implemented the RESCO concept. A third party currently constructs, runs, and transfers solar power plants on customers' properties under the Renewable Energy Services Company (RESCO) model, in addition to paying for the system's installation and commissioning costs. In accordance with the model, the electricity produced by these power plants is initially to be supplied to and consumed by the homeowner, with any excess electricity being fed into the public grid. According to the terms and conditions, homeowners must provide the company space on their rooftops in exchange for electricity throughout the build-operate-transfer period at a cost of Rs 3.23 per unit. This model was approved in January of this year after a petition was submitted to the JERC by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), which has been designated as an executing agency for renewable energy projects of the Department of Science and Technology, UT. Under the new model, the house owner will have to provide nearly 500 sq ft of space for the installation of a 5kWp solar plant.             
 NDMC member Kuljeet Chahal recently informed the media that the civic body will encourage the implementation of grid-connected solar plants                 
 The new traffic system will work on real-time data in accordance with the traffic situation and synchronise the traffic signals at intersections  The Pune Smart City Development Corporation (PSCDCL) is all set to commission 'smart signalling' under the Adaptive Traffic Management System (ATMS) by August this year.As per the reports, Wherever the system is installed, the new traffic system will work on real-time data in accordance with the traffic situation and synchronise the traffic signals at intersections. As per Sanjay Kolte, the Chief Executive Officer of Pune Smart City, “'The first phase of ATMS will be completed soon as the installation of equipment for 95 traffic junctions is completed. The integration of the system is going on and the project will be commissioned in the next 15 days. Data collected after 15 days through an artificial intelligence system will make the ATMS give expected results.” As soon as the installation of the equipment for 95 traffic junctions is completed, the first phase of ATMS will be finished. The system integration is ongoing, and the project will be put into operation in the following 15 days. An artificial intelligence system will use data gathered after 15 days to cause the ATMS to provide the anticipated results.Kolte also informed that the control room for the ATMS has been made ready at the Smart City office on Sinhagad Road, adding that the project is being implemented for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The PMC will incur a cost of Rs 58 crore for the operation and maintenance of the project, which is being implemented in two phases. The project will be implemented at 125 junctions in phase one and will be extended to cover all 261 junctions across Pune in the second phase.The major components of the ATMS include adaptive traffic controllers at junctions, traffic lights and traffic sensors, travel time devices, variable message sign boards and integration with the command control centre. The control system will have a video wall to monitor the sensors and cameras across the city. The Pune Smart City Development Corporation (PSCDCL) is all set to commission 'smart signalling' under the Adaptive Traffic Management System (ATMS) by August this year. As per the reports, Wherever the system is installed, the new traffic system will work on real-time data in accordance with the traffic situation and synchronise the traffic signals at intersections. As per Sanjay Kolte, the Chief Executive Officer of Pune Smart City, “'The first phase of ATMS will be completed soon as the installation of equipment for 95 traffic junctions is completed. The integration of the system is going on and the project will be commissioned in the next 15 days. Data collected after 15 days through an artificial intelligence system will make the ATMS give expected results.” As soon as the installation of the equipment for 95 traffic junctions is completed, the first phase of ATMS will be finished. The system integration is ongoing, and the project will be put into operation in the following 15 days. An artificial intelligence system will use data gathered after 15 days to cause the ATMS to provide the anticipated results. Kolte also informed that the control room for the ATMS has been made ready at the Smart City office on Sinhagad Road, adding that the project is being implemented for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMC will incur a cost of Rs 58 crore for the operation and maintenance of the project, which is being implemented in two phases. The project will be implemented at 125 junctions in phase one and will be extended to cover all 261 junctions across Pune in the second phase. The major components of the ATMS include adaptive traffic controllers at junctions, traffic lights and traffic sensors, travel time devices, variable message sign boards and integration with the command control centre. The control system will have a video wall to monitor the sensors and cameras across the city.             
 The project will be executed in association with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with financial assistance from the World Bank. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 550 crore Siliguri Municipal Corporation The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has initiated a project for developing a network of underground power cables in the city.The project will be executed in association with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with financial assistance from the World Bank. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 550 crore.The SMC Mayor Gautam Deb and CMD WBSEDCL Santanu Basu recently held a meeting where the project was discussed. Deb told the media after the meeting that the work will start after Durga Puja. “Power cables will be laid underground for a distance of around 550km across Siliguri. In the first phase, around Rs 200 crore will be spent. There are plans to start the work after Durga Puja," Deb told newspersons after the meeting.He further added, “Around 32,000 electric poles, which are in the city along with transformers, will be removed. Small transformers will replace the existing large transformers. The cabling will help in ensuring a steady power supply and the maintenance costs will be less." Two weeks ago, the SMC had issued the first phase's tender. The project cost, as per reports, will be shared by the World Bank and the civic body on a 70:30 ratio. The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has initiated a project for developing a network of underground power cables in the city. The project will be executed in association with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with financial assistance from the World Bank. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 550 crore. The SMC Mayor Gautam Deb and CMD WBSEDCL Santanu Basu recently held a meeting where the project was discussed. Deb told the media after the meeting that the work will start after Durga Puja. “Power cables will be laid underground for a distance of around 550km across Siliguri. In the first phase, around Rs 200 crore will be spent. There are plans to start the work after Durga Puja," Deb told newspersons after the meeting. He further added, “Around 32,000 electric poles, which are in the city along with transformers, will be removed. Small transformers will replace the existing large transformers. The cabling will help in ensuring a steady power supply and the maintenance costs will be less." Two weeks ago, the SMC had issued the first phase's tender. The project cost, as per reports, will be shared by the World Bank and the civic body on a 70:30 ratio.                
 According to an official press note issued by MahaRERA, the developers have been issued notices under the Immovable Property Act for non-compliance with uploading details on its website for homebuyers  Maharashtra Regulatory Authority of India (MahaRERA) has sent show-cause notices to 563 developers for non-compliance with uploading details on its website for homebuyers.According to an official press note issued by MahaRERA, the developers have been issued notices under the Immovable Property Act. According to the Immovable Property Act, 746 projects registered with the real estate regulator in January had to register and update certain forms on the website containing the details of registrations, money received, money spent, etc. This is a legal provision to make this basic information available to homebuyers who have or will invest in these projects.In May, MahaRERA gave each of these developers a 15-day show-cause notice to correct this data. On the website, 183 of the developers have updated their quarterly reports. The disregard for customers displayed by the remaining 563 developers was seriously noted by MahaRERA. All of them have received show-cause letters under section 7 asking them to provide justifications for not having their projects' registrations revoked. The developers have been given 45 days to answer; if they fail to do so, their project registration may be cancelled. In that situation, all project-related activities, including the bank account, new registrations, and construction, may be put on hold.Starting in Q1, the regulatory authority started reviewing the projects' financial quarterly progress reports (Financial Quarter Based Project Progress Reporting System). MahaRERA is trying to increase transparency in this industry so that homeowners can have access to all project-related information. In addition to the Real Estate Act's Rules 3, 4, and 5, Order No. 33/2022, dated 5 July, 2022, mandates that every developer update the required statement forms on the website on a quarterly or annual basis. It contains significant customer-related information, such as modifications to the authorised building plan, the project's current state, the number of plots, apartments and garages registered for the project, and the amount of funding received.A press note issued by MahaRERA says, "All these aspects are explained to the developers while registering their project with MahaRERA. It is also clearly mentioned in the MahaRERA Project Registration Certificate issued to them. Despite this and despite giving ample opportunity to notice, 563 out of 746 developers have not updated their quarterly forms on the website. Therefore a show cause notice under Section 7 has been issued to all of them." Maharashtra Regulatory Authority of India (MahaRERA) has sent show-cause notices to 563 developers for non-compliance with uploading details on its website for homebuyers. According to an official press note issued by MahaRERA, the developers have been issued notices under the Immovable Property Act. According to the Immovable Property Act, 746 projects registered with the real estate regulator in January had to register and update certain forms on the website containing the details of registrations, money received, money spent, etc. This is a legal provision to make this basic information available to homebuyers who have or will invest in these projects. In May, MahaRERA gave each of these developers a 15-day show-cause notice to correct this data. On the website, 183 of the developers have updated their quarterly reports. The disregard for customers displayed by the remaining 563 developers was seriously noted by MahaRERA. All of them have received show-cause letters under section 7 asking them to provide justifications for not having their projects' registrations revoked. The developers have been given 45 days to answer; if they fail to do so, their project registration may be cancelled. In that situation, all project-related activities, including the bank account, new registrations, and construction, may be put on hold. Starting in Q1, the regulatory authority started reviewing the projects' financial quarterly progress reports (Financial Quarter Based Project Progress Reporting System). MahaRERA is trying to increase transparency in this industry so that homeowners can have access to all project-related information. In addition to the Real Estate Act's Rules 3, 4, and 5, Order No. 33/2022, dated 5 July, 2022, mandates that every developer update the required statement forms on the website on a quarterly or annual basis. It contains significant customer-related information, such as modifications to the authorised building plan, the project's current state, the number of plots, apartments and garages registered for the project, and the amount of funding received. A press note issued by MahaRERA says, "All these aspects are explained to the developers while registering their project with MahaRERA. It is also clearly mentioned in the MahaRERA Project Registration Certificate issued to them. Despite this and despite giving ample opportunity to notice, 563 out of 746 developers have not updated their quarterly forms on the website. Therefore a show cause notice under Section 7 has been issued to all of them."                
 The move came amid a number of accidents being reported along the stretch since it was opened in March this year, raising concerns about safety of commuters  In order to conduct a safety inspection along the Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway in Karnataka, the state-owned National Highways Authority of India has set up a committee of road safety specialists, according to an official announcement on Tuesday.The committee is on a visit to the site and will conclude its study by 20 July, the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways said. It further added that the committee will submit the report within 10 days after visiting the site.The move came amid a number of accidents being reported along the stretch since it was opened in March this year, raising concerns about safety of commuters.According to the official statement by the ministry, “National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has constituted a committee of Road Safety Experts to carry out safety inspections of Bengaluru-Mysuru Access Controlled Highway to ensure that the corridor continues to serve people of Karnataka by promoting safe travel.”A section of the 118-kilometer highway crosses over NH-275. According to the ministry, NHAI used cutting-edge technologies to build the highway, which is helping to increase trade and serve as a catalyst for the socioeconomic development of the area. “The highway has cut travel time between the two cities by almost half to just 75 minutes. The highway is a testimony of India’s rapidly transforming road infrastructure and NHAI’s commitment to create a world class national highway network,” it said.The route also has 89 underpasses and overpasses, 40 minor bridges, nine major bridges, four rail overbridges, and nine large bridges. To address the issue of traffic congestion, a total of six bypasses have been built in the towns of Bidadi, Ramnagara, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya, and Srirangapatna. In order to conduct a safety inspection along the Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway in Karnataka, the state-owned National Highways Authority of India has set up a committee of road safety specialists, according to an official announcement on Tuesday. The committee is on a visit to the site and will conclude its study by 20 July, the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways said. It further added that the committee will submit the report within 10 days after visiting the site.The move came amid a number of accidents being reported along the stretch since it was opened in March this year, raising concerns about safety of commuters. According to the official statement by the ministry, “National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has constituted a committee of Road Safety Experts to carry out safety inspections of Bengaluru-Mysuru Access Controlled Highway to ensure that the corridor continues to serve people of Karnataka by promoting safe travel.” A section of the 118-kilometer highway crosses over NH-275. According to the ministry, NHAI used cutting-edge technologies to build the highway, which is helping to increase trade and serve as a catalyst for the socioeconomic development of the area. “The highway has cut travel time between the two cities by almost half to just 75 minutes. The highway is a testimony of India’s rapidly transforming road infrastructure and NHAI’s commitment to create a world class national highway network,” it said. The route also has 89 underpasses and overpasses, 40 minor bridges, nine major bridges, four rail overbridges, and nine large bridges. To address the issue of traffic congestion, a total of six bypasses have been built in the towns of Bidadi, Ramnagara, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya, and Srirangapatna.                
 According to the agreement between BEST and the company signed in May 2022, the company was supposed to provide a prototype by 4 October last year. If approved, the supply of buses would start within six months. But even after a year of the deal, the prototype has not been presented, as per the reports  The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation-led public transport undertaking Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) has recently issued a show cause notice to its wet lease contractor for being unable to supply 700 double-decker AC electric buses on time. It may be recalled that BEST plies buses in Mumbai city limits.  According to the agreement between BEST and the company signed in May 2022, the company was supposed to provide a prototype by 4 October last year. If approved, the supply of buses would start within six months. But even after a year of the deal, the prototype has not been presented, as per the reports. BEST general manager Vijay Singhal, said that a show cause notice has been issued to Causis E-Mobility and that legal action will be taken against the company.“Two firms were given the contract for 900 double-decker electric buses, of which Causis E-Mobility was to provide 700. However, the company has failed to supply buses or the prototype as per the contract,' he said.The firm was also warned of confiscating the deposit amount of over Rs 3 crore, officials said.A new tender for 700 e-buses will be issued soon by BEST. Additionally, it will provide a proposal to the state administration for the recovery of funds from Causis E-Mobility in the event that they receive a higher bid in a subsequent tender than the original contract value.With a contract for 2,100 AC e-buses, wet leasing contractor Olectra is preparing to deliver new buses to the public transport company. By March 2024, delivery of every bus has been promised. According to Singhal, the aforementioned contractor will begin supplying buses in limited quantities in August or September. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation-led public transport undertaking Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) has recently issued a show cause notice to its wet lease contractor for being unable to supply 700 double-decker AC electric buses on time. It may be recalled that BEST plies buses in Mumbai city limits. According to the agreement between BEST and the company signed in May 2022, the company was supposed to provide a prototype by 4 October last year. If approved, the supply of buses would start within six months. But even after a year of the deal, the prototype has not been presented, as per the reports. BEST general manager Vijay Singhal, said that a show cause notice has been issued to Causis E-Mobility and that legal action will be taken against the company. “Two firms were given the contract for 900 double-decker electric buses, of which Causis E-Mobility was to provide 700. However, the company has failed to supply buses or the prototype as per the contract,' he said. The firm was also warned of confiscating the deposit amount of over Rs 3 crore, officials said. A new tender for 700 e-buses will be issued soon by BEST. Additionally, it will provide a proposal to the state administration for the recovery of funds from Causis E-Mobility in the event that they receive a higher bid in a subsequent tender than the original contract value. With a contract for 2,100 AC e-buses, wet leasing contractor Olectra is preparing to deliver new buses to the public transport company. By March 2024, delivery of every bus has been promised. According to Singhal, the aforementioned contractor will begin supplying buses in limited quantities in August or September.                
 The Bhendi Bazaar redevelopment project, undertaken by SBUT, not only changes the landscape of one of the most densely populated areas of Mumbai, but also provides facilities like drainage system and water supply  Bhendi Bazaar is one of the most densely crowded and populated areas of India’s financial capital, Mumbai. While the city continues to grow, Bhendi Bazaar was known to be one of the most backward areas in terms of facilities like water supply and drainage systems. The Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) has been working steadily to change the landscape of Bhendi Bazaar and keep it in accordance with the rest of the city. Malikarjun Rao, General Manager, Design at SBUT, spoke to BW Smart cities and shared more about the project. Talking about the project, Rao said that the project's vision is to turn Bhendi Bazaar, a densely crowded and unhygienic neighbourhood, into a dynamic, sustainable, and inclusive community. The project addresses various issues that Bhendi Bazaar was experiencing, including overpopulation, poor infrastructure, inadequate housing, and a lack of services. It's aimed at upgrading the infrastructure of Bhendi Bazaar, including roads, water supply, sanitation, and drainage systems. The vision is to empower residential and commercial owners by significantly enhancing their access to essential services and utilities that were previously lacking. The project area spans over 16.5 acres. The overall cost of construction for the Bhendi Bazaar cluster redevelopment project is projected to be upwards Rs. 4,000 crore. Talking about the challenges of the project, Rao said that a large-scale reconstruction project like Bhendi Bazaar needs consent from local inhabitants, approvals from many government bodies, and going through various administrative processes which are at times quite cumbersome. Moreover, due to the deep-rooted social and cultural ties with the area, moving of residential and commercial tenants to transit facilities is challenging. However, with the people-first approach, the trust engaged with tenants, understood their needs and requirements, and successfully moved them to temporary accommodations until their new, ownership homes in Bhendi Bazaar get ready. The first phase of the project was completed in 2020, rehousing 610 families and 128 commercial outlets in two tall-standing towers. The second phase of the project, comprising the upcoming four towers An-Nasr and Al-Ezz, are expected to be completed in the next three to four years and will bring back all the residential and commercial tenants as proud owners to their new premises in Bhendi Bazaar.  Established in 2009, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) works towards improving and upgrading the Bhendi Bazaar neighbourhood with its redevelopment project spanning over 16.5 acres. SBUT is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for people of Bhendi Bazaar by improving infrastructure, sanitation facilities and creating a sustainable neighbourhood.. Over the years, the trust has been actively involved in the design, coordination, and implementation of redevelopment projects with the support of  various  stakeholders, including the local community, government agencies, and urban planning and architectural experts. Bhendi Bazaar is one of the most densely crowded and populated areas of India’s financial capital, Mumbai. While the city continues to grow, Bhendi Bazaar was known to be one of the most backward areas in terms of facilities like water supply and drainage systems. The Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) has been working steadily to change the landscape of Bhendi Bazaar and keep it in accordance with the rest of the city. Malikarjun Rao, General Manager, Design at SBUT, spoke to BW Smart cities and shared more about the project. Talking about the project, Rao said that the project's vision is to turn Bhendi Bazaar, a densely crowded and unhygienic neighbourhood, into a dynamic, sustainable, and inclusive community. The project addresses various issues that Bhendi Bazaar was experiencing, including overpopulation, poor infrastructure, inadequate housing, and a lack of services. It's aimed at upgrading the infrastructure of Bhendi Bazaar, including roads, water supply, sanitation, and drainage systems. The vision is to empower residential and commercial owners by significantly enhancing their access to essential services and utilities that were previously lacking. The project area spans over 16.5 acres. The overall cost of construction for the Bhendi Bazaar cluster redevelopment project is projected to be upwards Rs. 4,000 crore. Talking about the challenges of the project, Rao said that a large-scale reconstruction project like Bhendi Bazaar needs consent from local inhabitants, approvals from many government bodies, and going through various administrative processes which are at times quite cumbersome. Moreover, due to the deep-rooted social and cultural ties with the area, moving of residential and commercial tenants to transit facilities is challenging. However, with the people-first approach, the trust engaged with tenants, understood their needs and requirements, and successfully moved them to temporary accommodations until their new, ownership homes in Bhendi Bazaar get ready. The first phase of the project was completed in 2020, rehousing 610 families and 128 commercial outlets in two tall-standing towers. The second phase of the project, comprising the upcoming four towers An-Nasr and Al-Ezz, are expected to be completed in the next three to four years and will bring back all the residential and commercial tenants as proud owners to their new premises in Bhendi Bazaar. Established in 2009, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) works towards improving and upgrading the Bhendi Bazaar neighbourhood with its redevelopment project spanning over 16.5 acres. SBUT is dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for people of Bhendi Bazaar by improving infrastructure, sanitation facilities and creating a sustainable neighbourhood.. Over the years, the trust has been actively involved in the design, coordination, and implementation of redevelopment projects with the support of  various  stakeholders, including the local community, government agencies, and urban planning and architectural experts.             
 According to the state’s Finance minister, the decision will strengthen the intercity transport infrastructure  Punjab Finance, Planning, Excise and Taxation Minister Harpal Singh Cheema on Monday said that the state’s Finance Department has given its nod for merging 371 debt-free buses of PUNBUS into the fleet of the Punjab Roadways. He said that the department has also approved a budget of Rs 73 crores to meet expenditures for the same during this financial year.This was stated in an official press statement issued by the government. Cheema said that the decision was taken as per the directions of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. He said that Punjab Roadways had only 115 buses in its fleet, and with this merger number would be raised to 486 which will improve the intercity transport infrastructure in the state.The decision to merge these buses was taken in May this year, when the total number of 587 buses were chosen. However in the first round, 371 debt-free buses have been chosen. He said that as per estimates included in the proposal of the Transport department, the expected expenditure on running these 371 buses by Punjab Roadways for entire FY 2023-24 is Rs 109.61 crores with an earning of Rs 138.70 crores. "As per the revised estimates, the Punjab Roadways is expected to earn Rs 90 crores registering a profit of Rs 17 crores", he added. Punjab Finance, Planning, Excise and Taxation Minister Harpal Singh Cheema on Monday said that the state’s Finance Department has given its nod for merging 371 debt-free buses of PUNBUS into the fleet of the Punjab Roadways. He said that the department has also approved a budget of Rs 73 crores to meet expenditures for the same during this financial year. This was stated in an official press statement issued by the government. Cheema said that the decision was taken as per the directions of Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann. He said that Punjab Roadways had only 115 buses in its fleet, and with this merger number would be raised to 486 which will improve the intercity transport infrastructure in the state. The decision to merge these buses was taken in May this year, when the total number of 587 buses were chosen. However in the first round, 371 debt-free buses have been chosen. He said that as per estimates included in the proposal of the Transport department, the expected expenditure on running these 371 buses by Punjab Roadways for entire FY 2023-24 is Rs 109.61 crores with an earning of Rs 138.70 crores. "As per the revised estimates, the Punjab Roadways is expected to earn Rs 90 crores registering a profit of Rs 17 crores", he added.             
 PCMC has worked with Toilet Seva, a nonprofit organisation that works to provide access to hygienic restrooms  The user-friendly ToiletSeva app, which gives information about the locations of public restrooms and their services in the city, was recently launched by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.PCMC has worked with Toilet Seva, a nonprofit organisation that works to provide access to hygienic restrooms. Additionally collaborating with the social endeavour to use technology to address the issue is Cosmos Co-Op Bank. PCMC Commissioner Shekhar Singh launched the ToiletSeva app and provided information about the locations and amenities of these public toilets in the city.According to the officials, this app's goal is to make it simple for users to get information on toilet availability and amenities with just one click. This will be extremely helpful for passengers, students, workers and tourists to the city in addition to locals.Designed and focused solely on outdoor toilets, the Toilet Seva app can be downloaded free of charge on both iOS and Android platforms. It offers user-friendly functionality in three languages: Marathi, Hindi and English. As per the official release, the app, founded by Amol Bhinge, currently has a vast database of over 1,30,000 toilets across India. The user-friendly ToiletSeva app, which gives information about the locations of public restrooms and their services in the city, was recently launched by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. PCMC has worked with Toilet Seva, a nonprofit organisation that works to provide access to hygienic restrooms. Additionally collaborating with the social endeavour to use technology to address the issue is Cosmos Co-Op Bank. PCMC Commissioner Shekhar Singh launched the ToiletSeva app and provided information about the locations and amenities of these public toilets in the city. According to the officials, this app's goal is to make it simple for users to get information on toilet availability and amenities with just one click. This will be extremely helpful for passengers, students, workers and tourists to the city in addition to locals. Designed and focused solely on outdoor toilets, the Toilet Seva app can be downloaded free of charge on both iOS and Android platforms. It offers user-friendly functionality in three languages: Marathi, Hindi and English. As per the official release, the app, founded by Amol Bhinge, currently has a vast database of over 1,30,000 toilets across India.               
 The network of stormwater drains (SWD) and sewerage pipes that run beneath the surface of the roads in Mumbai are protected by more than one lakh manhole covers. 74,000 of these cover sewer channels  In a first-of-its-kind national programme, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to put smart sensors above manholes by the end of August in an effort to identify cover theft, monitor sewage levels, and avoid accidents. The civic council has issued work orders to put sensors above manholes, which will activate if someone attempts to remove the covers, in 14 locations throughout the city in support of the pilot project.The network of stormwater drains (SWD) and sewerage pipes that run beneath the surface of the roads in Mumbai are protected by more than one lakh manhole covers. 74,000 of these cover sewer channels.According to civic body data, the theft of these covers has dramatically increased during the last four years. Manholes without covers are frequently the target of theft with the goal of using them as scrap, which unfortunately frequently results in fatalities. The civic organisation developed the "smart manhole" initiative to stop this. In a first-of-its-kind national programme, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to put smart sensors above manholes by the end of August in an effort to identify cover theft, monitor sewage levels, and avoid accidents. The civic council has issued work orders to put sensors above manholes, which will activate if someone attempts to remove the covers, in 14 locations throughout the city in support of the pilot project. The network of stormwater drains (SWD) and sewerage pipes that run beneath the surface of the roads in Mumbai are protected by more than one lakh manhole covers. 74,000 of these cover sewer channels. According to civic body data, the theft of these covers has dramatically increased during the last four years. Manholes without covers are frequently the target of theft with the goal of using them as scrap, which unfortunately frequently results in fatalities. The civic organisation developed the "smart manhole" initiative to stop this.                 
 133 projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs are being implemented by the Puducherry Smart City Development Limited Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan The Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has directed senior officials of the state to speed up Smart City projects in Puducherry.According to an official statement from Raj Nivas, the Lt. Governor had a thorough evaluation of projects for the Smart City programme on Wednesday evening. 133 projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs are being implemented by the Puducherry Smart City Development Limited in the UT. The statement stated that these projects will cost around Rs 930 crore and will change the city in a big way.As per the statement, “The constant monitoring of the projects by the Lt. Governor has resulted in completion of 38 projects. Of the completed projects, 17 are related to storm water and sewerage works, 17 public assets and electric works and 4 related to municipal drain works . Projects, such as development of Botanical Garden, Goubert Market, Grand Canal and reconstruction of Pudumai Building on the Beach Road will be taken up very soon.” The Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has directed senior officials of the state to speed up Smart City projects in Puducherry. According to an official statement from Raj Nivas, the Lt. Governor had a thorough evaluation of projects for the Smart City programme on Wednesday evening. 133 projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs are being implemented by the Puducherry Smart City Development Limited in the UT. The statement stated that these projects will cost around Rs 930 crore and will change the city in a big way. As per the statement, “The constant monitoring of the projects by the Lt. Governor has resulted in completion of 38 projects. Of the completed projects, 17 are related to storm water and sewerage works, 17 public assets and electric works and 4 related to municipal drain works . Projects, such as development of Botanical Garden, Goubert Market, Grand Canal and reconstruction of Pudumai Building on the Beach Road will be taken up very soon.”                
 The Gandhi nagar based GIFT City recently became India’s first International Financial Services Centre and witnesses heavy vehicular movement everyday  After becoming India’s first International Financial Services Centre, the GIFT City in Gujarat’s Gandhi Nagar is all set for another major makeover. The GIFT City plans to develop three multilevel car parkings to initially accommodate 5,000 cars as the Greenfield smart city's haphazard parking of automobiles is a major problem. It may be noted that there are currently around 20,000 people employed across a number of businesses in GIFT City, which also serves as home to India's first IFSC. To travel to GIFT City, the majority of these employees use their own cars. Visitors and employees are compelled to park their cars on the side of the road or in vacant lots due to a lack of parking spaces.According to the GIFT City officials, they are attracting private investors to build multi level car parkings in the city to accommodate 5,000 cars. Since it is a vertical city, the space above the car parking will be utilised for commercial purposes.”The first multi level parking structure's project has been given to Gandhinagar-based Nakshatra Group out of the six bidders who submitted proposals. Near GIFT One, the first high-rise building of the project that was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2013 while he was the chief minister of Gujarat, the first multilevel park with space for 1,150 automobiles would be constructed.In the proposed high-rise skyscraper, the private developer will offer five levels of parking, including two on each of the first and first floors and three in the basement. In addition to the three or two floors of basement parking that are offered in each of the 16 high-rise buildings built in GIFT City, these multilevel car parks are also available. Only the first multi-story buildings built in the project, the GIFT One and GIFT Two towers, contain more than one basement. After becoming India’s first International Financial Services Centre, the GIFT City in Gujarat’s Gandhi Nagar is all set for another major makeover. The GIFT City plans to develop three multilevel car parkings to initially accommodate 5,000 cars as the Greenfield smart city's haphazard parking of automobiles is a major problem. It may be noted that there are currently around 20,000 people employed across a number of businesses in GIFT City, which also serves as home to India's first IFSC. To travel to GIFT City, the majority of these employees use their own cars. Visitors and employees are compelled to park their cars on the side of the road or in vacant lots due to a lack of parking spaces. According to the GIFT City officials, they are attracting private investors to build multi level car parkings in the city to accommodate 5,000 cars. Since it is a vertical city, the space above the car parking will be utilised for commercial purposes.” The first multi level parking structure's project has been given to Gandhinagar-based Nakshatra Group out of the six bidders who submitted proposals. Near GIFT One, the first high-rise building of the project that was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2013 while he was the chief minister of Gujarat, the first multilevel park with space for 1,150 automobiles would be constructed. In the proposed high-rise skyscraper, the private developer will offer five levels of parking, including two on each of the first and first floors and three in the basement. In addition to the three or two floors of basement parking that are offered in each of the 16 high-rise buildings built in GIFT City, these multilevel car parks are also available. Only the first multi-story buildings built in the project, the GIFT One and GIFT Two towers, contain more than one basement.                 
