The flight service will help connect the state capital of Uttar Pradesh with eastern UP cities like Azamgarh, Mirzapur, Varanasi and more'
Only nine of the 185 projects in total, totaling Rs 22.56 billion have been completed'
The facility was launched by Vikas Kumar, Managing Director, DMRC from the Rajiv Chowk Metro Station'
The project will be executed by NTPC Green Energy, a fully-owned subsidiary of the NTPC, which will bear the complete cost of Rs 160 crore'
The decision comes with a plan to ensure that this is the most accessible public transport mode in the city'
The idea is to prevent long-distance buses from entering the city by allocating dedicated places at the nakas, which are furnished with amenities like parking spaces, dining establishments, restaurants, bus bays, CNG pumps, charging stations, and enquiry and ticketing counters'
The smart city agency has also begun mapping everyday users in various locations to enhance accessibility in surrounding areas'
NDMC member Kuljeet Chahal recently informed the media that the civic body will encourage the implementation of grid-connected solar plants'
According to Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), as many as 421 cases had been pending with them where residents of the city had not received their subsidy despite installing solar power plants'
The agenda for installing these tablets would be tabled in the house on Tuesday'
The new traffic system will work on real-time data in accordance with the traffic situation and synchronise the traffic signals at intersections'
The project will be executed in association with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) with financial assistance from the World Bank. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 550 crore'
According to an official press note issued by MahaRERA, the developers have been issued notices under the Immovable Property Act for non-compliance with uploading details on its website for homebuyers'
The move came amid a number of accidents being reported along the stretch since it was opened in March this year, raising concerns about safety of commuters'
According to the agreement between BEST and the company signed in May 2022, the company was supposed to provide a prototype by 4 October last year. If approved, the supply of buses would start within six months. But even after a year of the deal, the prototype has not been presented, as per the reports'
The Bhendi Bazaar redevelopment project, undertaken by SBUT, not only changes the landscape of one of the most densely populated areas of Mumbai, but also provides facilities like drainage system and water supply'
According to the state\xe2\x80\x99s Finance minister, the decision will strengthen the intercity transport infrastructure'
PCMC has worked with Toilet Seva, a nonprofit organisation that works to provide access to hygienic restrooms'
The network of stormwater drains (SWD) and sewerage pipes that run beneath the surface of the roads in Mumbai are protected by more than one lakh manhole covers. 74,000 of these cover sewer channels'
133 projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs are being implemented by the Puducherry Smart City Development Limited'
The Gandhi nagar based GIFT City recently became India\xe2\x80\x99s first International Financial Services Centre and witnesses heavy vehicular movement everyday'
The report highlights the critical role of data-driven decision making and technological advancements in driving urban management.'
Agreement is between the Municipal Corporation and IIM Indore to beautify Lucknow and connect the villages with the cleanliness drive'
For Bengaluru, the CM has promised a total grant of Rs 12,000 crore to implement various schemes such as High-Density Corridor, white-topping of roads, solid waste management, repair of canals (Rajakaluves), and more'
The project, according to the legislators, is one of the primary steps the state government is taking to ensure that residents have access to water around-the-clock'
The proposed investment would intends to implement technology and AI in any single real estate project in Delhi-NCR, the statement added'
The Union government would send a team of IIT-M professionals who have provided quality control services for numerous projects, including foreign projects'
According to information, officials from the departments of urban development, finance, and public works will examine the projects completed in Belagavi and investigate any claims of irregularities'
The MoU will give the much needed e-mobility push to the holy city'
Private investment will get a boost with the implementation of the Uttar Pradesh Township Policy, 2023'
The plan gives nod to the new provisions related to the number of floors, habitable attic and garage in a building'
The sum has been given to a project that aims to develop Puri into a world class heritage city'
As per the proposal, urban bodies that achieve a minimum 10 per cent increase in their revenue collection compared to the previous year will be eligible to receive grants under the urban body scheme'
The move comes 2 weeks after launch of Eco-Vizag campaign'
b"The project was approved by the MC's Finance and Contract Committee (F&amp;CC) in January of this year as a solution to the city's growing traffic issue"
In his meeting with the Union Minister, Mann further said Mohali needed special funding to support planned growth and infrastructure development'
The decision has been announced after the success of the rowing competition held under the Khelo India University Games (KIUG)'
The chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued instructions to release instalment of Rs 100 crore for the Ganga Expressway, and Rs 40 crore for the Bundelkhand Expressway'
The drive is being conducted along with DDA, Delhi Police and MCD'
These include the creation of a new tank in Villivakkam at a cost of Rs 9.88 crore and the construction of a command, control and disaster response centre/smart governance centre at a cost of Rs 9.11 crore inside the Ripon building complex'
In the 3rd phase, 36 urban local bodies of the remaining 10 districts of the Northern RDC Division will be covered'
According to officials involved with the project, this is the first time that MBBR technology has been used in the country'
b"The company joined hands with PWD to execute the court building's MEP works within merely 24 months"
The Srinagar Data Network of SDNet will be controlled from the ICCC that manages all the Smart City\xe2\x80\x99s IT interventions and will have a capacity of 960 million OFCS'
Addressing a press conference, the Congress leader said several allegations pertaining to the implementation of projects under the Smart City Mission have surfaced in recent times'
Parking lots under the Smart City project will have a capacity up to 400 vehicles, while the smaller parking lots will have an average capacity of 15 to 25 vehicles'
As per the MoU, all government organisations and Indore 311 emergency services, including the police, fire department, and ambulance, will now use the Pataa application'
The CSML has successfully finished 20 projects in the city thus far. Additionally, two more projects are currently during the tendering process, and 30 projects are already in the execution phase'
Out of the 125 projects, 56 projects worth Rs 320 crore have been completed, rest of the 69 projects are under execution'
Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also called for a campaign to increase awareness and prevent traffic accidents and the deaths they cause'
Smart cities can create a data-driven approach to urban planning. This can help to optimise the use of resources and create a more efficient urban landscape'
The corporation has said that the extension was granted due to delays in the procurement of materials and the execution of work'
A loan of Rs. 1760 crore (EUR 200 million) from AFD and KfW (EUR 100 million each) and an EU grant for technical support of Rs. 106 crore (EUR 12 million) would be used to fund the initiative'
Through this project, the State capital is expected to become one of the largest \xe2\x80\x98solar cities\xe2\x80\x99 in the country'
The smart bus stops will have a stainless steel structure with polycarbonate roof sheet built over over 50 sq metre area'
As per official information, students have been encouraged to take part in the competition'
It may be recalled that the BJP MLA from Panjim Atanasio Monserrate, also the state\xe2\x80\x99s revenue minister, had earlier commented that the ongoing work in Panjim Smart city is substandard'
b"Members of the parliamentary standing committee for the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs examined each city's projects, offered suggestions for improvement, and expressed appreciation for the officials' creative project work"
The action comes after the Congress suggested the union minister Hardeep S Puri to review the works in the state'
The Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that remaining projects are expected to be completed by 30 June, 2024'
The minister was speaking at the meeting of the Parliamentary Consultative Committee on Smart cities'
These integrated systems modernise and centralise traffic management, traffic control, traffic law enforcement, and traffic information dissemination in the city.'
This is the second city in Madhya Pradesh to get futuristic manhole cleaning solutions, Indore being the first'
b"The smart signal system's flexibility to adjust to shifting traffic conditions is one of its most important advantages"
The idea is to reduce, reuse and recycle waste through these centres'
This was informed by D Thara, Additional Secretary, MoHUA and Mission Director, AMRUT 2.0'
To achieve this objective, the Indian government launched the Smart Cities Mission, aimed at transforming 100 cities across the country into smart cities by 2024'
The extension came following the requests from Smart city managements for completion of pending projects that were delayed during Covid lockdowns'
The parameter that needs to change the most is the consumer\xe2\x80\x99s mindset. There needs to be greater awareness that e-waste is both an environmental and economic challenge, but one that can be solved'
Shah inaugurated smart schools in Chandkheda, Sabarmati, Shela, Thaltej and Sarkhej regions of Ahmedabad that have been built at a cost of Rs 7.38 crore'
The real estate development which, once was restricted to big and metropolitan cities has started progressing towards smaller towns and cities owning the demands of availability of bank loans, higher incomes and improved standard of living'
Under the contract, EKI will offer its comprehensive bouquet of strategic consultancy services for the end-to-end management of all the GHG mitigation projects'
The \xe2\x80\x98SafaiMitraSurakshitShehar\xe2\x80\x99 declaration done by 500 cities aligns with Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban\xe2\x80\x99s longstanding goal of promoting sustainable sanitation practices and acting as a catalyst for the transformation of every \xe2\x80\x98manhole\xe2\x80\x99 into a \xe2\x80\x98machine hole\xe2\x80\x99'
The initiatives and solutions that are offered by the latter need to be stitched together in building the smart, resilient and liveable cities that we are all aspiring for!'
With violent crimes on the rise in society, advanced video analytics surveillance systems have become indispensable because they give law enforcement agencies reliable information about crimes that have occurred in a particular locale at a given time, as well as a way to validate every piece of evidence.'
Cities will need to foster a coevolution between complex technology on the one hand, and effective systems on the other by investing, among other things, in quality human resources, procurement systems and building learning organisations'
Cities now have to develop and thrive despite challenges like population growth, lack of physical and social infrastructure, environmental and regulatory constraints, and rising expenses.'
According to a release by the Cabinet, the Cabinet understands that providing reliable and affordable water supply and sanitation services to urban households is a national priority.'
Cities are eco systems of different people who are capable of becoming what they can become in a highly networked world. Cities are not just about infrastructure and amenities; safety and security.'
The users can now obtain new connections and convert prepaid connections to postpaid and vice versa from their homes or offices.'
A 1989-batch IAS, Rajaraman, is currently working as the Additional Secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs under the Ministry of Finance.'
9 officers have also been upgraded to the rank of Special Secretaries. They will be given the pay equivalent to the Secretary to the Government of India.'
As many as 25 IAS officers, including two newly appointed district collectors, are rejigged in Rajasthan, as per an order issued by the Government of Rajasthan led by CM Ashok Gehlot.'
Retiresred IAS officer, K Kailashnathan is named the Chief Principal Secretary to Gujarat Chief Minister on contractual basis, with immediate effect, read an official order issued by the Gujarat Government'
"In the last three and half years, our government has taken several steps to ensure holistic development of the state. Our vision is to transform Meghalaya into one of the Top ten states in the country by 2030. To achieve this, we have been working tirelessly to improve the well-being of our farmers, women, youth, and every section of the society. To take this further, we want citizens participation and engagement in the governance process. With the launch of MyMeG Program, we aim to promote participatory democracy in Meghalaya, where people can contribute in the governance process and share their feedback on various government programs and initiatives. This will bring transformation in governance by citizen participation, engagement, and empowerment\xe2\x80\x9d, said CM Sangma.'
\xe2\x80\x9cIt closely aligns with the G20\xe2\x80\x99s financial inclusion priorities of driving faster, cheaper, and more transparent cross-border payments,\xe2\x80\x9d said RBI in an official statement issued.'
Amidst tension over the expansion cabinet, the Gujarat government led by CM Bhupendra Patel announces rejig of 8 IAS officers.'
IDAS 91 batch senior administrative officer Alka Nangia Arora has been allotted the charge of Chairman cum Managing Director of National Small Industries Corporation Limited.'
The Haryana State government on Wednesday late announced the transfer and reposting of as many as 7 IAS and 10 HCS officers in a bid to strengthen the administrative setup in the state.'
The pact signing by the Agriculture ministry is in direction of modernizing the agriculture sector by implementing new technologies that may increase the income of farmers, said Union Minister of  Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar while signing the Memoranda of Understanding, an official statement recorded.'
The material recovery facility (MRF) in Greater Noida will come up at a cost of Rs 3 crore and will be funded by the HDFC bank through its corporate social responsibility program Parivartan.'
Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh Univerity in Aligarh which will be focusing on defense technology-backed education related to the manufacturing of defense equipment in Uttar Pradesh.'
Karnataka government recently transferred 8 IAS officers in a bid to strengthen administration within the state.'
Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan led Madhya Pradesh government announced a significant transfer order for as many as 11 IAS and 4 state cadre officers.'
With a fund amount of INR 1275 crores being allocated by the Jal Shakti Ministry towards the  move, the minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat asserted to create sustainable water sources in the escapes of Indira Gandhi Nagar Yojana.'
Formally inaugurated by Yadav and US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate (SPEC), John Kerry, at an event held in the capital, wherein Yadav remarked that the dialogue will not only strengthen India-US bilateral cooperation on climate and environment but will also help to demonstrate how the world can align swift climate action with inclusive and resilient economic development, taking into account national circumstances and sustainable development priorities.'
An administrative order issued by the state government of Bihar transferred as many as 22 IPS officers in the state, enhancing the administration of the state.'
The Supreme Court of India has recently directed Bengal, Odisha, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Nagaland, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Karnataka to fill up vacancies in the commissions within six months.'
The order issued by the state government announced to transfer of over 100 State Administrative Service (SAS) and state police service officers in the major rejig.'
CESL, an EESL subsidiary organization inked pact with Delhi Transport Corporation(DTC) for managing the new EV charging plaza at Nehru Place DTC Bus Terminal which will be completed within a month. While such EV charging plaza is to be set up in total 7 locations for the installation of Charging and Battery Swapping Stations, each of the seven locations will have a total of six charging points.'
For any technology to be a harbinger of change, it must impeccably balance the demands of the individual, communities, and of course that of the planet. If businesses hope to maximize the viability of next-gen wireless connectivity, it will be naive not to examine the pertinent challenges alongside the distinct opportunities promised by them.'
The Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs(MoHUA), Hardeep Puri recently asserted that the expenditure allocated on the urban development domain has expanded eight-fold over the last six years (2015-2021). He further added that Swachh Bharat Mission becomes a Jan-Andolan and will be launching SBM 2.0, with an outlay of Rs. 1.41 lakh crores.'
The National Urban Digital Mission (NUDM) was launched in February 2021 to improve the ease of living for citizens through the delivery of electronic governance services in partnership with State and local governments.'
Sharma on his central deputation was responsible for the charge of the Director-General of the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs till June 2021.'
An order issued by the Rajasthan state government on September 10, transferred as many as 7 IPS (Indian Police Service) officers across the state, in a bid to tone up administrative scenarios in the state.'
Delhi Power Minister, Satyendra Jain, inaugurated the facility for a cost of Rs 5.5 crore, the microgrid system consists of 100 KWp solar and 466 kWh Lithium-Ion Battery Energy Storage System (BESS),'
As Vijay Rupani resigned from the post of Chief Minister of Gujarat, Bhupendra Patel is the new name on behalf of Bharatiya Janata Party.'
Mitra is elevated from the rank of Additional Director General of Police to the rank of Director General of Police on Promotion and will continue to be posted as Kolkata police commissioner.'
As many as 45.5 lakh applications have been received, so far of which, 27.2 lakh loans have been sanctioned and 24.6 lakh loans have been disbursed. An amount of two thousand four hundred 44 crore rupees have been disbursed so far.'
MoS, Rameshwar Teli highlighted that the registration provides 2 lakh accidental insurance cover to the beneficiaries.'
Under the 100-day scheme, the airports are set to come up in Keshod (Gujarat), Deogarh (Jharkhand), Gondia(Maharashtra), Sindhudurg(Maharashtra), and Kushinagar(Uttar Pradesh), while heliports will be made operational in Sanjoli(Shimla), Sase (Manali), Mandi, Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), Haldwani, Almora (Uttarakhand), he added.'
What came in as a major decision from the President of India, new governors has been appointed in four states across in India, namely, Nagaland, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, through an official communication order issued.'
Government of India and Asian Development Bank signed two loans agreements worth $412 million for urban infrastructure projects in Maharashtra and Jharkhand'
The effort was also to sensitize the stakeholders and mainstream the dialogue on disability inclusion across policy and project interventions and facilitating technical assistance to the city beyond the BASIIC programme timeline.'
Central Government has recently approved several board-level new appointments in PSUs and PSBs across India.'
Putting 132 cities across the country on the radar, the PRANA portal is going to track the physical and financial status of city air action plan implementation.'
During the meeting, Singh also briefed Bommai on various activities ongoing at the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which has its headquarters in Bengaluru. He also elaborated on the various applications of space technology that can be utilized in various developmental projects.'
The announcement made by Bhartiya Janata Party(BJP) on Wednesday is well crafted to retain power or gain power in the upcoming poll-bound states'
b"Realigning the state's administrative framework, the Assam government announced a minor reshuffle."
Mishra, at 60, was appointed as the ED director for a period of two years, by on November 19, 2018 and later by an order of November 13, 2020, the appointment letter was modified retrospectively by the Central government and his term of two years was replaced by three years.'
The fort-night long government training program is intended to enhance knowledge sharing and learning about Good Governance and works done under the Smart City project in Dehradun.'
NEC and AWS entered into strategic collaboration in November 2020, and have been developing offerings and strengthening delivery capabilities since then.'
While addressing during the launch of the campaign, PM Modi emphasized how N-DEAR as a government program will be acting as a bridge between various academic activities, similarly as UPI interface revolutionized the BFSI Sector. He further emphasized how tech-based innovations as Audiobooks and others have been improvised in the education sector and are making significant evolution in the domain.'
The state government of Uttarakhand recently announced rejig of top brass bureaucrats in the state, in a bid to strengthen the state\xe2\x80\x99s administration ahead of polls.'
Intelligent Transportation Management System (ITMS) strives to innovate, plan, operate, evaluate, and manage transportation systems by leveraging advanced information and communication technologies. ITMS can revolutionize the way people commute in metros and smart cities.'
The pact will empower Amazon India to work with Industries and Mines Department, Government of Gujarat to enable the MSMEs in the state to export to over 200 countries and territories across the world. Gujarat is one of the key exporter states of India with MSMEs from the state exporting a wide range of products including readymade apparel and textiles, gems and jewellery amongst others.'
Goel, a former union minister, and Delhi BJP chief is nominated as Vice-Chairman, GSDS by PM Modi, besides 9 other members, selected inboard.'
The Madhya Pradesh state government in a midnight order issued on Saturday, transferred collectors of Hoshangabad, Ashok Nagar, Sagar, Alirajpur, Dhar, Narsinghpur, Shahdol, Sidhi, Mandsaur, Raisen, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Balaghat, and Niwari districts.'
As Lucknow Metro Rail observed its 4th anniversary recently, Union Secretary emphasized the construction of its second phase to ease congestion and pollution in the state.'
The Haryana Government recently issued transfer and posting orders of two IAS officers and 26 HCS officers.'
RAAHI is part of the CITIIS (city investments to innovate, integrate and sustain) Program which is run by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, French Development Agency (AFD), European Union, and National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). The project was nominated from amongst 67 other projects in 37 cities across the country in 2019.'
The state government announced a minor reshuffle in the state police department to strengthen the police force amidst tussle between police and farmers.'
The President appreciated Suhas\xe2\x80\x99 dedication saying, being dedicated to sports while performing his duties as a civil servant is exceptional.'
Dr. Bharti Pawar, MoS, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare sternly emphasized why BRICS digital health platform is the need of the hour to assure health data availability across BRICS countries to ensure the continued care. BRICS Digital Health Declaration was adopted in presence of Health Ministers of BRICS nations.'
Mumbai being a part of the C40 Cities Network since December 2020, drafted its Climate Action Plan by the end of 2021 in-fulfillment of the C40 guidelines. Under the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), the climate action plan is prepared with technical support from the World Resources Institute India, which is engaged as a knowledge partner.'
b"MeitY's National e-Governance Division recently inked a pact with National Law University's Delhi branch and Bhopal-based National Law Institute University to establish a cyber lab in a bid to boost cyber law, crime investigation, and digital forensics."
Godrej & Boyce commits to continue offsetting its plastic quantities by 100%. The Company plans to introduce recycled content up to 25% in its plastic product packaging, by 2030'
The major bureaucratic decision was announced by the Bihar government ahead of its Panchayat Election to strengthen administrative control in the state. As many as 47 Sub-Divisional officers(SDOs) and 10 Deputy Development Commissioners(DDCs) are rejigged for this cause.'
In a major administrative decision taken by the Government of Haryana, about 19 IAS officers are reshuffled across the state.'
b"The Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) had recommended Bhatt''s name for the post of CMD of RINL. After serving the company for 38 years, P K Rath retired as CMD RINL. RINL is a special steel-making player based in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The company, without any captive iron ore mines, owns and operates a 7.3-million tonne (MT) steel plant in the state."
Three other IAS officers, including Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, were let off in the case as the charge against them has been dismissed.'
Mohammad K Safirulla, a 2010 batch IAS officer, who was holding the charges of Additional Secretary, Department of Electronics and Information Technology has been transferred and is presently been posted as Special Commissioner, Kerala Goods and Service Tax Department.'
"The Indian Government has been unleashing the most comprehensive planned urbanized program undertaken anywhere in the world, since 2014. The \'Housing for All\' program is an example of the paradigm shift that has taken place," Puri remarked. He further added that India appreciates and is leveraging every opportunity from the partnership with UNOPS in housing, renewable energy, and development cooperation.'
Vartika Shukla took charge as Chairperson & Managing Director of Engineers India Limited (EIL) with effect from 01, September 2021.'
Mohapatra was earlier appointed as Principal Chief Commissioner of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana region. As the Chairman, he is the head six members Board of CBDT.'
GIFT City has strategically planned to achieve high energy efficiency through a district cooling system and 100% LED street lighting. The city has also embraced water management through a 35% reduction in potable water and treatment & reuse of 100% wastewater.'
Under the new Climate Action Plan, all extreme weather events of the last 10 years are being analyzed to prepare a comprehensive plan which will focus on air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, transport issues, air conditioning, heat islands, agriculture patterns, etc.'
The decision was issued with the retirement of the present state DGP, Virendra, while the Central Government is yet to clear the name of the next DGP.'
A 1984 batch senior IAS officer, Bhalla handled charges of being the Secretary Power and have succeeded Rajiv Kumar Gauba on August 2019.'
The bureaucratic reshuffle announced transfer orders of as many as 20 IAS officers in the state.'
The day-long training program emphasized how 5G and Cyber Security plays a critical role in business across domains and was attended by over 65 participants of Joint Secretary and above level from more than 24 Central Ministries.'
Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha has been appointed joint secretary to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai'
Chief Minister of Goa Pramod Sawant recently inaugurated the Goa Startup Conclave Entrepreneurship Summit - "Anth Prerana" at a function organized by the Startup Promotion Cell together with Goa Institute of Management at Panaji.'
The state government announced the posting of senior 1993-batch IAS officer, Anurag Verma as new principal secretary home with additional charge of principal secretary (elections).'
New collectors are assigned for 8 Districts in the state, including Rajanna Sircilla, Jangaon, Warangal, Kamareddy, Nagarkurnool, Jogulamba Gadwal, Vikarabad, and Mahabubabad'
Companies that are already operating the state as, Tata Steel, Dalmia Group, Steel Authority of India Limited, Prem Rubber Works, Adhunik Group among others have shared their investment plans in the state for the coming three or four years, in writing.'
Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Parshottam Rupala, launched the web version of e-Gopala application, in presence of Meenesh Shah, Chairman National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)'
The initiative will help in nurturing skill-sets besides extending funding support to the Start-up, ensured Ashwini Vaishnaw during the launch of the program'
With an aim to maintain records of all workers, in the organized sector such as construction laborers, migrant workforce, street vendors, and domestic workers, among others, and will help in integration of social security schemes of the government.'
Kumar, who is a native of Bihar is presently serving as the Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department.'
Minister of Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday mentioned that the schemes will be launched by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a public sector enterprise under the Department of Biotechnology (DBT)'
In a major, RailTel has completed deploying Artificial Intelligence (AI) based Identification System monitoring attendance and management of SDMIS (Student Database Management Information System) for government schools in Assam.'
b"According to a statement issued by the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&amp;CC), Yadav highlighted on inclusion of the 'Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD)' Track under the India-US Climate, Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership."
The joint efforts of MeitY Start-Up Hub and Paytm aim to create a vibrant ecosystem for SAAS, and app-based startups built on the deep-tech platform technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud computing, etc., through support in terms of mentoring, technological assistance, go-to-market strategies.'
Networked devices and associated services back the automation in smart homes. Unlike popular belief, these homes and IoT powered devices are not limited to entertainment processes. The technology used in smart homes facilitates ease of life for homeowners. Often referred to as domotics, they provide them with convenience, comfort, and energy efficiency.'
A major bureaucratic reshuffle is announced by the Maharashtra government, announcing new posting for Senior IAS bureaucrats.'
Initiatives as this, are essential to clean and maintain the air quality of Delhi which is one of the most polluted cities not only in India but across the world. Such a tower reduces pollution-causing particles in the air and works as a large-scale air purifier. Since the past few years, the national capital has witnessed a major drop in its air quality.'
Three Cities of Andhra Pradesh, namely, Visakhapatnam, Tirupathi Municipal Corporation, and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation have been awarded the tag.'
The order issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet announced 44 major bureaucratic reshuffle.'
The order issued by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet on Monday ordered the transfer and repatriation of 41 other officers in Government of India.'
Dinesh Kumar is appointed as Joint Secretary, Department of Defence for a tenure of five years, in place of 1994 batch Chattisgarh officer Nidhi Chhibber. In another major reshuffle in the department, Sanjay Kumar, (IA&amp;AS 1995) is appointed as Additional FA & Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Defence (Finance) for a period of five years in place of A N Das,'
In a major bureaucratic reshuffle order announced by the Appointment Committee of the cabinet announced Hyderabad cadre IAS CD Rajini Kaanthan as Joint Secretary in Ministry of Home Affairs besides other significant transfer and repatriation orders.'
Premature Repatriation is granted to Rekha Shukia, IRS (IT) (1989), who was acting as Joint Secretary, Department of Health & Family Welfare so far.'
The Punjab cadre IAS officer earlier was engaged in Inner Engineering LEadership Programme conducted by Isha (Foundation) Yoga Center in Coimbatore.'
The bureaucratic reshuffle announced by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet rejiged 44 senior level officers from across departments in the Central Government; while some have been granted repatriation.'
Amit Khare, Secretary, Higher Education Department was holding the additional charge of the post of Information and Broadcasting secretary for over a year now.'
The scheme was launched by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) in 2019. It seeks to provide subsidies on solar pumps to the farmers of our country.'
According to the data published by the UN, the world population will reach up to a limit of 9.7 billion by the end of 2050. As the number grows, we\xe2\x80\x99ll have to encounter challenges regarding making a provision for resources and energy to all of the inhabitants and at the same time, avoiding environmental deterioration.'
BIOCUBE, the world\xe2\x80\x99s first unique multifactor and multimodal AI-based Biometric authentication platform, through its mobile App, DAKSH  both staff and trainees get onboarded into skill development program with their unique Bio-ID, ensuring complete data driven traceability.'
The portal and app targets the youth, will now be able to take benefits of skill development training programs more conviniently.'
As Smart Cities aim to improve citizens\xe2\x80\x99 lives, the integration of IT and OT systems is indispensable in making this vision a ground reality.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tInvites proposals from OEMs for procurement of electric-three wheelers as per FAME II guidelines \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tVehicles will be deployed by CESL for different use-cases across the country\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFocus is on the garbage disposal, passenger autos and livelihood generation'
The award marks the beginning of the second phase of the first season of India Cycles4Change Challenge in which107 cities across the country came together to test, learn, and scale up different cycling-friendly initiatives, thus,kickstarting India\xe2\x80\x99s cycling revolution.'
NIXI-Mandi is a neutral platform for providing network and telecom services. It is designed with the concept and aim of facilitating NIXI members with a neutral platform for transacting their business. It is brought so as to extend the services of data centers and telecom service providers to the existing and even the new Internet Service Providers (ISPs).'
According to the MOU, JSW Foundation shall extend Technical  &  Financial support towards Conservation, Restoration, and Maintenance of the Mughal Gardens of Shalimar Bagh and Nishat Bagh in Kashmir.   The Government of Jammu & Kashmir will provide assistance and continue to provide funding for the project through support resources and other infrastructure.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\t24 x 7 safe drinking water from taps as per Indian Quality Standards of IS 10500\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFirst time in India, the Odisha government\xe2\x80\x99s \xe2\x80\x98Sujal\xe2\x80\x99 or \xe2\x80\x98Drink From Tap\xe2\x80\x99 mission will benefit the city\xe2\x80\x99s 2.5 lakh local population and 2 crores, tourists\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWill eliminate the usage of 400 metric tonnes of plastic, further reducing the state\xe2\x80\x99s carbon footprint'
If market reports are to be believed, the software as a service market in India is poised to touch $20 to $80 billion mark in revenue and capture 7% to 9% of the share of the global SaaS market by 2022. The next wave of growth in the segment is expected to build new capabilities with strong COVID tailwinds driving collaborations and productivity tools and remote working, pushing enterprises towards digital channels. VMware, as a leading innovator in enterprise capabilities, and digital technologies presently, is on the past to support the transformation by expanding the focus on solutions such as cloud and apps, SaaS growth, digital workspace, intrinsic security, and the likes.'
BJP leader BS Yediyurappa resigned as the Karnataka Chief Minister earlier on Monday. However, it is yet to be known who will succeed as the new Karnataka Chief Minister.'
As per National Water Research Center (NWRC), there is a current demand-supply deficit of 141 million gallons of water per day in the city, which is likely to increase by 17% in the coming decade. In this backdrop, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), in its Master Plan for Delhi 2041 (MPD41) suggested a number of reforms in the physical infrastructure of the water sector in order to achieve the desired water sustainability. The refinements in the MPD41 are majorly associated with solutions for the increasing water demand of the city.'
The pact with the Government of Tamil Nadu has a potential investment if INR 550 crores with a focus in industrial and logistics real estate platforms.'
Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, M. K. Stalin unveils AG&amp;P Pratham\xe2\x80\x99s INR 1,700 crore investment commitment for establishing City Gas Distribution infrastructure in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu Districts.\nLaid the foundation stone for AG&amp;P Pratham\xe2\x80\x99s Natural Gas City Gate and Mother Station in Sriperumbudur, Kancheepuram District, and inaugurated the Company\xe2\x80\x99s first Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) station in Meenambakkam, Chennai'
India\xe2\x80\x99s leading renewable energy company will use the platform to manage its utility-scale solar, wind and hybrid energy projects more efficiently\nAn inclusive, data-driven platform approach will enable users to track the progress of multiple complex projects, quickly act on insights and ensure best-in-class delivery\nReNew Power can support its commitments to lead India\xe2\x80\x99s transition, away from fossil fuels, and meet the country\xe2\x80\x99s growing energy needs in a sustainable way'
Over 55 % of the world\xe2\x80\x99s population currently lives in urban areas\xe2\x80\x94according to projections, this number will go up to 70% by 2050. Rapid urbanization coupled with a booming global population could add 416 million urban dwellers to India alone. To put it simply, one in every two Indians is expected to live in cities by 2050.'
The facility will benefit around 2800 people at Bichakundi~'
\xe2\x80\xa2The scheme, launched by Union Minister of Power in March, recently resumed operations after the lifting of lockdowns in UP and Bihar \n\xe2\x80\xa2Energy efficient and affordable LED bulbs are being distributed in rural areas of Bihar & UP for INR 10 each'
The initiative is in line with India\xe2\x80\x99s aspirations for economic modernization, which are fundamentally linked to the country\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission.'
TERI and the DULT will focus on developing a low-carbon strategy for Karnataka\xe2\x80\x99s urban freight sector.'
b"The new ministry coming into force indicates the Central Government's commitment to Community-based developmental initiatives and fulfill the budget announcement made by Finance Minister earlier."
Meanwhile, the state government has requested the Centre to allocate minimum 10 IPS officers selected through Civil Services Examination 2020 to the state cadre owing to a shortage of IPS officers.'
b"With the demand for water projected to be twice the available supply by 2030, implying severe scarcity for hundreds of millions of people and an eventual 6% loss in the country's GDP, millions will struggle to live with low adaptive capacity and fast diminishing reliable water resources in the coming years, if unheeded."
Dhami who is in his 45 is the youngest Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, has completed his post-graduate in human resource management and industrial relations and earlier served as Vice-Chairman of the Urban Monitoring Committee with the rank of state minister in the cabinets of previous chief ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Maj Gen (retd) BC Khanduri.'
b"Minister of Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri launched a portal on 'Freight Smart Cities' and released a handbook outlining 14 guideline initiatives that can be adopted for Freight Smart Cities."
Thanks to the evolution of technology the idea of a smart city is now a reality and a requirement. Overpopulation of cities demands the progress of strategic planning that uses infrastructure, innovation, and technology to adapt and keep pace with swift changes.'
"It is a moment of pride for Gwalior as our Digital Museum has made it to the prestigious ISAC awards. This award is an acknowledgment of the efforts and vision of Gwalior Smart City in preserving heritage and also its adaptive reuse. The museum is an amazing combination of age old heritage with latest digital intervention. The ISAC award shall keep us motivated to deliver even better projects in the future", asserted CEO Gwalior Smart City, Jayati Singh.'
While speaking in a webinar organized by the Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI), Secretary Ministry of Electronics and  Information Technology focussed on the imperative for India to manufacture its own software and hardware products, software potential of India a significant area of growth in the coming years and connected devices will enable India to capitalize on 5G.'
"The Indian real estate sector has informed the world what is shared economy and what a social impact this sector can make on the entire country. This sector not only has the potential to give many opportunities to unemployed youth but, also to create a better nation through its relentless pursuit of building better buildings\xe2\x80\x9d, remarked Shweta Shalini, BJP Spokesperson and Advisor to Former Chief Minister of Maharashtra & Executive Director of Maharashtra Village Social Transformation Foundation while delivering an energetic special address in  Realty+ 40 under 40 Conclave & Awards 2021 held on June 26, 2021.'
While most parts of the country continued to grapple for hospital beds and oxygen supply owing to Covid 19 emergencies, the Jharkhand government continued to extend grants and opened several facilities, including 100-bed Vedanta Cares COVID Field Hospital in Bokaro where over 2000 people have been vaccinated in collaboration with the District Administration and the State Health Department'
CESL will execute solar mini, micro-grid solutions, energy-efficient lighting, battery storage solutions, energy-efficient cooking stoves, and Electric mobility solutions in the UT of Ladakh'
The MoU was signed by Shri Rajat Sud, Managing Director, EESL and Shri Amitabha Sur, President, ISHRAE, in the august presence of officials from EESL cluster and state offices and officials of ISHRAE.'
Tata Consultancy Services(TCS) to Leverage Vision 25x25, Renewable Energy and Digital Technology to Reduce Carbon Emissions by 70% by 2025, and Become a Net Zero Emitter by 2030'
A senior bureaucrat of 1990 IAS batch, Alok Kumar, is from Tripura cadre, is presently posted as additional secretary in the cabinet secretariat of the central government'
In a major drive to support the Digital India concept, Railtel floated a tender to cover 456 more stations to be covered under internet-based video surveillance besides developmental work under process in 31 stations, which are supposed to be completed soon.'
Adding on to a special feature, the Aarogya Setu app now displays vaccination status using the registered mobile number used on the CoWIN portal.'
Both the agencies will work together to support market identification and compliance assessment to enable quality delivery of CESL\xe2\x80\x99s EE programs'
Two retired bureaucrats have been appointed as Independent External Monitors (IEMs) in the Ministry of Defence.'
Alapan Bandyapadhya, Chief Secretary West Bengal Government retires today and is further appointed as Advisor to Chief Minister Mamata Bandyapadhyay.'
The biggest reason for EVs to be popular is that it had a positive impact on the environment and contributes to a healthier planet. It is also the reason by EVs have been pegged as one of the major pillars of urbanization in smart cities. They revolutionize transport and fulfill every travel need within a city. Because transport in a city is important to mobilize citizens and facilitate progress EVs become essential and effective in playing several beneficial roles.'
Subrahmanyam replaced Anup Wadhwan, upon superannuation on June 30.'
\xe2\x80\x9cWhile the Education system in India is to shift drastically towards technical or skill based education even at school level, however the shift is not to happen overnight and will take some time to impact the system. Here we must remember that our focus should be on creating entrepreneurs who will create jobs apart from imparting job facilitating skills\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Satyajeet Rajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Labour, Skills and Excise, Government of Kerala in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
The official order issued by the Government of India, cleared by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet, granted senior IPS Samant Kumar Goel an extension of one year.'
The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet of Government of India has granted an extension of one year for Intelligence Bureau Chief Arvind Kumar.'
Jaiswal, a senior IPS officer of 1985 batch of Maharashtra cadre has earlier served in important portfolios as  Director General of Central Industrial Security Force and was former Maharashtra DGP as well.'
Today, IoT has grown exponentially to create global networks that can openly connect data, machines and people with each other. In fact, by 2020 many surveys projected there will be an astounding 26- 100 billion connected devices \xe2\x80\x9cthings\xe2\x80\x9d globally\xc2\xb9.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tA bubble curtain is a Non-invasive solution to stop plastic from entering the oceans and help make Agra plastic-free\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tGeocycle under the aegis of UNEP India in partnership with Agra Municipality and GIZ India with technology from Canadian Pond is working towards this mission'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tMahindra Rural customers can now repay loans at over 136,000 post offices \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tPartnership with IPPB in keeping with Mahindra\xe2\x80\x99s Rise philosophy'
b"Cities are responsible for most of the world's economic activity, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions. The major contributors to carbon footprints are food, consumption, transportation, and household energy."
\xe2\x80\xa2         End-to-end 5G Private Network with Open RAN capabilities, cloud-enabled 5G Core, orchestration and analytics, and an ecosystem of device and application partners\n\xe2\x80\xa2         Ban Chang \xe2\x80\x98Silicon Beach\xe2\x80\x99 Smart City showcasing today\xe2\x80\x99s technology in partnership with 5GCT, Mavenir and Cisco'
The findings point to a concentrated modernization effort throughout the sector over the past few months, with 70 percent of respondents saying COVID-19 has caused IT to be viewed more strategically in their organizations.'
Udaipur, Kota, Ajmer, and Jaipur have secured the 8th, 11th, 29th and 36th rank among the 100 smart cities of the country.'
Workforce optimization through rotational shifts, social distancing on office premises, remote asset management and efficient energy usage will all become high-priority areas. Smart and automated building systems that automatically adjust air quality, temperature and ventilation will play a key role in maintaining a comfortable environment within the building while using energy smartly and keeping the air clean.'
The idea entails phasing out vehicles and creating a 15-minute city in an effort to encourage more self-sufficient urban communities with grocery shops, parks, cafes, sports facilities, health centers, schools, and even workplaces just a walk or bike-ride away.'
The36 hours course was organised by the premier institute of DoT, the National Telecommunications Institute for Policy Research, Innovation and Training (NTIPRIT), a first of its kind, to train and certify officers working in Network Security.'
The challenge ideated to develop an app that will promote regional language literacy which may result in creating greater cultural understanding within the country.'
In a first, Chitkul in Kinnaur district gets Digital Dukaan with Mini-ATM service to provide greater access to cash, a step towards its mission to cover India\xe2\x80\x99s far-flung remote corners under the financial system.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tA bubble curtain is a Non-invasive solution to stop plastic from entering the oceans and help make Agra plastic-free\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tGeocycle under the aegis of UNEP India in partnership with Agra Municipality and GIZ India with technology from Canadian Pond is working towards this mission'
b"In a major move, the railways' department installed free Wi-Fi in the 6000 the station as the facility went live in Hazaribagh town of Jharkhand,"
The newly-formed Assam government has ordered the transfer of a number of IAS and ACS officers, including deputy commissioners.'
In a major bureaucratic rejig ordered by the Government of India, as many as 20 bureaucrats have been appointed for Joint Secretary post for various ministries and de[partments.'
The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry press statement said that the specific measure was undertaken to monitor the entire oxygen supply chain., including efforts for improving oxygen production, enhancing tanker availability to optimize logistics, improving oxygen storage at the last mile, and easing norms of procurement.'
The ceremony was marked by the presence of H.E. Francisco Andre, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Portugal, and H.E. Werner Hoyer, President EIB.'
In a recent order issued by the Government of Delhi, the 1998 batch IAS officer is appointed as Secretary to Delhi Chief Minister, Arvind Kejriwal.'
In a major bureaucratic decision the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir has issued transfer orders of  two IAS and a IRS officer in the state.'
The Smart City Startup Challenge is a month-long program that will enable selected startups to pitch their innovations to MNCs, working in the smart city domain. Also, an equity-free grant of Rs 10 lakh will be given to the winner, besides they be featured in a smart city innovation listing, that is shared with all smart city CEOs.'
The technology integration will empower users to monitor zone alarms and videos from a centralized system, providing further situational awareness, maximizing preparedness and response to perimeter breach or sabotage.'
In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, V Irai Anbu replaced Rajiv Ranjan, as the Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu. Ranjan is presently posted as the  Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers limited replacing S Shivashanmugaraja'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe IT sector has grown exponentially in the last two decades, providing close to 4.5 million direct and 10 million indirect jobs within the country. As per estimates, the sector\xe2\x80\x99s revenue is currently at about $194 billion which is expected to reach $350 billion by 2025, creating many more jobs in the process. Even in the middle of the pandemic, leading companies in this sector continue hiring in large numbers across experience and job levels. Overall, the sector is expected to witness a 12% increase in hiring this year \xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Jyoti Arora, Special Secretary and Financial Advisor, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITy), Government of India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld.  Excerpts Below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cGiven the need for improved environmental infrastructure, waste management and recycling across emerging economies and given an enabling policy environment, the sector is poised for multifold growth in the coming years. As the largest and the most integrated player in this space, Ramky Enviro expects to be at the forefront of this transformation\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Masood Mallik, Joint Managing Director, Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cJICA has launched a campaign of Achhi Aadat (Good habit) with support of the Japanese companies, including LIXIL, Kai India and Unicharm, who have joined hands with the campaign as sponsors. They have a strong will to contribute to the people of India where the business has been developed. Many more Japanese companies are echoing the Campaign and joining the circle and promoting the concept to their staff and clients\xe2\x80\x9d, confirmed Dr.  Katsuo Matsumoto, Chief Representative, JICA India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
With an increase in online and virtual activities, cybercriminals have attacked with increased vigor due to the increased opportunities for targeting people.'
Tripurari Sharan to be the new Chief Secretary of Bihar, after Arun Kumar Singh, the earlier Chief Secretary, succumbed to death due to Covid on  Friday.'
As a part of their transformational journeys, cities are strengthening their geospatial infrastructure to unleash the power of spatial analytics, Internet of Things (IoT), big data and artificial intelligence (AI) to improve the quality of life for their citizens and strengthen resilience.'
\xef\x83\x98\tReceives Rs. 5 crore in contribution and matches it to take the total contribution to Rs. 10 crore\n\xef\x83\x98\tIncreases its target for the initiative, to raise Rs 14 crores for sourcing over 3,000 OCs internationally\n\xef\x83\x98\tAims to become the destination for other organizations & enterprises to procure OCs'
UNDP, along with its partners EPFL, Orange and SAP announced the selection of 12 exceptional growth-stage ventures striving to impact access to quality health, clean energy, and waste management in developing countries. Sizeable investment opportunities, they demonstrate the business case of the SDGs'
b"Two grants sanctioned by Google's philanthropic arm include a sum total of INR 20 crores and donations and contributions by Google employees, who contributed about 3.7 crores till now."
The Exchange already operates trading at three gas hubs at Dahej, Hazira in Gujarat and Hazira in Gujarat and KG Basin in Andhra Pradesh.'
While technology was already changing our lives and businesses, the COVID-19 outbreak further catalyzed the adoption of tech-led solutions across the board. From remote working to online ordering of groceries, tech made deeper inroads across all industries. The parking industry is no exception.'
The 1MW in-house solar plant will reduce the company\xe2\x80\x99s carbon emission by 1030 metric tonnes'
Government of Japan pacts with National High Speed Railway Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) and Japan Railway Technical Service (JARTS) for Training & Certification service for Track Construction work of Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) project'
On Earth Day, 3M commits to reduce its use of new plastic made from petroleum by 125 million pounds by 2025.'
The Project shall be commissioned within 18 months from the date of execution of the PPA. The tariff for this Project is \xe2\x82\xb9 2.22/ kWh for a period of 25 years. The cost involved in the Project is about Rs. 1,250 crore.'
The report is the first to estimate the business cost of pollution in India, with the aim to motivate companies and policymakers to actively champion clean air.'
New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has announced some welfare schemes including medical insurance and medical treatment in any available government or private hospital on 100% reimbursement facilities on NDMC approved rates .'
-       An awareness program with a difference \xe2\x80\x93 One of its kind!\n-       Aims to cover 110 cities and 300 towns\n-       Targets corporates, RWAs, bulk consumers, dealers/retailers &schools'
Thanks to cloud computing and artificial intelligence, data-powered insights will deliver resilience and shape a more sustainable future in tomorrow\xe2\x80\x99s Smart Cities, explains Rashesh Mody, Head of Monitoring & Control for AVEVA.'
In a first-of-its-kind structure, CESL had invited participation of bidders for co-investment on a revenue sharing basis, where costs and profits would be shared in a manner that will encourage public-private participation in climate change mitigation.'
-Commits to Science-Based Targets and Carbon Neutrality by 2030 \n-Joins United Nations Global Compact'
In an IEEE survey of Chief Information Officers (CIOs) and Chief Technology Officers (CTOs) regarding the most important technologies for 2021 overall, AI and ML (32%), and IoT (14%) were noted as the most important technologies in 2021.'
Openreach has chosen STL as a key partner to provide optical cable solutions for its new, ultra-fast, ultra-reliable \xe2\x80\x98Full Fibre\xe2\x80\x99 broadband network.'
Dr V K Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog today said that there is a need to push the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat programs in the Indian manufacturing ecosystem.'
Global study shows COVID-19 accelerating public sector innovation; 88% of city leaders surveyed call for investment in cloud platforms'
Morgan Stanley and iBus Networks (\xe2\x80\x9ciBus\xe2\x80\x9d) announced that Morgan Stanley India Infrastructure has made an investment of \xe2\x82\xb9150 Crores (US$ 21 Million) to acquire a stake in iBus. iBus offers in-building wireless solutions (\xe2\x80\x9cIBS\xe2\x80\x9d), outdoor small cells, and other last-mile connectivity solutions to mobile operators to enable them to serve their customers seamlessly.'
McKinsey suggests that the worldwide number of Internet-of-Things or IoT-connected devices is projected to increase to 43 billion by 2023, an almost threefold increase from 2018.'
Under the Walletz4u flagship, a brand owned by SRAM & MRAM Group, one of the world\xe2\x80\x99s leading public health emergency management solutions companies, the brand is the leader in manufacturing their flagship \xe2\x80\x98Medical Protection Supply\xe2\x80\x99 products for consumers all across the globe.'
The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation which raised 150 Crore (Base Issue: 100 Crore with the green shoe option of 50 Crore) via Municipal Bonds on a private placement basis using the BSE bond platform, was listed on the exchange today.'
RPA is the fastest-growing segment of the global enterprise software market and will reach 2 billion in 2021.'
The Code on Wages, 2019 was accorded presidential assent on August 08, 2019, and will be enforced once notified by the Central Government. The Code consolidates and replaces four Central labor legislations related to wages, namely, the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 into a single, unified code.'
The aim of the program is to accelerate industrial energy efficiency by addressing technical and market barriers by integrating demand aggregation, manufacturer engagement, access to finance, and policy alignment.'
In a recent circular issued by the Appointment Committee of the Cabinet under the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), the central government rejigged 14 Senior IAS officers.'
The climate in 2021 is like what the Internet was in 1998. The next two decades will see climate change is going to touch and transform the fundamental basis of competition for every industry. Its impact will cut across sectors like energy, agriculture, transportation, construction, manufacturing, and finance among others.'
Permission for evaluation and standardization of plant protection solutions and developing protocols for diagnosis of major pests and diseases.'
Every year these floods cause enormous loss of life and property. There are several natural and manmade factors responsible for these floods and need specific measures for their control. However, we will keep the scope of this article to stormwater management in larger and smarter cities.'
b"\xe2\x80\xa2\tBRNL along with its partner's inks deal for the complete transfer of ownership in an operating toll road project from Ghaziabad to Aligarh on National Highway 34\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe sale reaffirms the commitment of BRNL to reduce the debt and also capitalize on the growth opportunities in the highways sector.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe transaction is done at an enterprise value of up to INR 1600 crores."
\xe2\x80\x9cThe SBM has truly evolved into a people-driven movement where every step that we take is matched and taken five steps ahead by citizens, who have become our partners\xe2\x80\x9d, ascertains an enthusiastic Naveen Kumar Agarwal, Director, Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts Below'
iRAM Technologies, a homegrown product development, and technology company with the most advanced solutions based on the Internet of Things (IoT), has won 4 large projects for Smart Pole, Smart Street Lighting, and Smart Parking city assets in Smart Cities of Dahod, Kohima, Pimpri Chinchwad and Rajkot. iRAM has won these projects in partnerships with leading conglomerates & system integrators in the Smart City Space.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tMMR\xe2\x80\x99s y-o-y decline in unsold housing highest among major 7 cities in Q1 2021, \xe2\x80\x93 from 2,13,180 units as on Q1 2020-end to approx.1,97,040 units by Q1 2021-end\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDespite ample new supply, MMR\xe2\x80\x99s unsold stock decline amidst robust sales - approx. 14,820 units (highest of top 7 cities in Q1 2021 \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tOf approx. 20,350 units sold in MMR in Q1 2021, 68% in Mumbai, 18% in Navi Mumbai & 14% in Thane\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDevelopers demand extension of stamp duty cut to sustain ongoing sales momentum'
The first direct flight from Shillong (Meghalaya) to Agartala (Tripura) under the UDAN scheme was flagged off yesterday after the successful commencement of the flight operations on the Shillong (Meghalaya)- Silchar (Assam) route on Monday.'
With the aim to connect the school children with nature while learning, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in association with the Directorate General of Human Resource Development wing of the Ministry of Finance has introduced a project \xe2\x80\x9cSrishti-Learning about Nature Class\xe2\x80\x9d- in its school.'
Ministry of Civil Aviation has granted permit to "No-Permission-No-Takeoff\' (NPNT) compliant drone operations at 34 additional green zones to facilitate, smoothen, and promote drone operations in the country. The approved sites allow drone usage up to 400 ft Above Ground Level (AGL).'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tCrosses 6,150 distribution mark in Arrah, Bihar in 2 days, says Power Minister\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t1 crore 50 lakh LED bulbs will be distributed in phase 1 resulting in energy savings of 2025 million KWh/year and CO2 reductions of 1.65 million T CO2/year'
The Next Normal\xe2\x80\x9d, as coined by UNESCO, will witness a dramatic restructuring of the economic and social order in which the government and society have traditionally operated. In India, the national government has initiated measures to navigate the next normal, rebuild better, and promote inclusive development.'
b"An Oxford Economics' Global Cities report predicts that India will be home to 17 out of 20 top cities of the world between 2019 and 2035. Cities are powerhouses of economic development, fostering innovation and employment generation."
New partners including Heifer International and charity: water join IBM developer ecosystem and open source community to take on climate threat'
The increasing technological knowledge of consumers and the availability of real-time data will accelerate the process to a large extent. Sectors such as healthcare, public sector, and utilities, transport are set to be revolutionized with equal stress on security systems to ensure a safe environment alongside a seamless one.'
A recent modeling report jointly undertaken by TERI and Shell maps out an illustrative technological pathway for India\xe2\x80\x99s domestic energy system to move towards net-zero emissions by 2050 while delivering sustainable economic growth.'
NASSCOM CoE for IoT & AI organizes Healthcare Innovation Challenge (HIC) for the digital transformation of healthcare providers in India'
Given the multifarious threats of water shortage and contamination of the resources, JICA proposes a multifaceted approach which should be considered to overcome this pressing challenge.'
Switzerland has never taken its natural beauty, the abundance of beautiful lakes, majestic mountain peaks, clean air, green living, and crystal-clear water sources for granted. Picture-perfect is a common synonym associated with the country and rightly so \xe2\x80\x94 its natural environment is the most integral part of this country\xe2\x80\x99s identity. Ecology ranks high here, making it one of the world\xe2\x80\x99s most sustainable countries for which due credit goes to the government as well as the local residents of Switzerland who have always been sensitive and responsible towards their environment.'
It is estimated that close to 1/3 of the world\xe2\x80\x99s population will live in water scarcity areas by 2025 \xe2\x80\x93 and this number includes both developing and developed countries. To fight this adverse development, there should be a global consensus to arrive at a smarter and data-driven approach towards understanding the challenges and addressing the solutions.'
b"Coca-Cola India reinforces its commitment towards one of its key Sustainability priorities of Waste Management. Aligned with the Government of India's Swachh Bharat (Clean India) Mission, Plastic Waste Management Rules and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the company\xe2\x80\x99s global initiative \xe2\x80\x98World Without Waste\xe2\x80\x99 aimed at creating a circular plastic economy, has achieved significant milestones in the country."
Thermax Babcock & Wilcox Energy Solutions Private Limited (TBWES), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Thermax recently signed a know how transfer and license agreement with Steinm\xc3\xbcller Babcock Environment GmbH (SBE), Germany for Waste to Energy technology.'
Ganga has been part of the collective consciousness of our country and its basin is the largest and most important for food and water security. River Ganga is essential for millions of people for their livelihood and economy. With the increased anthropogenic footprint due to developmental activities and the possible climate change, the River faces critical challenges of pollution and water availability.'
Continually, river systems are facing a multitude of threats. Only 37% of the world\xe2\x80\x99s longest rivers remain free-flowing over their entire length. Moreover, climate change is severely impacting the flow patterns, seasonality of rivers, and water availability in river basins.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tPaper highlights India\xe2\x80\x99s water crisis scenario, NRW cases, challenges, and implications, Govt initiatives \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tOutlines apparent losses, challenges faced by utilities globally  \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tPoints out how smart water tech and real-time data monitoring systems can rectify NRW loss \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tSensus in talks with water utilities of states, to develop a tech-smart approach towards NRW correction'
Governments, activists, and citizens of the world are recognizing the ailing effects of climate change and increasingly dedicating their efforts towards tackling these. The most visible change is the alteration of precipitation patterns globally \xe2\x80\x93 irregular rainfall causing both flooding and drought, snow cover in mountainous regions being completely disrupted and at times disappearing too.'
~ A model that appeals to the masses to use and dispose off plastic responsibly'
\xef\x81\xb5\t51% of the surveyed health and human services organizations (including public, private and voluntary/non-profit) in India increased their use of digital technologies during the pandemic\n\xef\x81\xb5\t74% of respondents in India reported that digital technologies and data solutions have increased staff productivity \n\xef\x81\xb5\t75% reported that digital solutions have been effective in delivering better outcomes for patients and service users'
REC Limited through its CSR arm REC Foundation has committed financial assistance to the tune of \xe2\x82\xb9 4.33 crore under its CSR initiative to Tata Memorial Centre for strengthening cancer screening and basic cancer care services in 14 districts of Bihar as a part of their program on promoting preventive health care.'
The Mission is not a standalone initiative but a collective approach to making the Indian economy self-sufficient and reliant. Besides public participation and policy intervention, infrastructure will play an important role in the success of this Mission.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tEESL launches market assessment study for Super-Efficient ACs; Also launches a National District Cooling potential study for India\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t27 million tons of CO2 emissions could be mitigated annually by using District Cooling System (DCS) with strong policy push\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDCS can be an innovative model to address the deteriorating climate situation'
The Experience Centre was inaugurated by Smt. K. Ratna Prabha, IAS (Retired.) Former Chief Secretary, Chairperson of Karnataka Skill Development Authority, Government of Karnataka\n\xe2\x80\xa2        The center combines classroom learning with on-the-job training in a live simulation environment to enhance employability among students\n\xe2\x80\xa2        Through this initiative, STT GDC India in association with Schneider Electric, endeavors to bridge the skill gap in the industry'
The state government under Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot\xe2\x80\x99s leadership has been advancing to establish the first of its kind Hybrid Project that will have solar, wind to generate energy and pump hydro storage capacity for the storage of the energy.'
Through this tender CESL intends to invite the participation of bidders for co-investment on a revenue-sharing basis. Under the Gram Ujala program, CESL will distribute high-quality LED bulbs, at an affordable cost in rural areas.'
Delhi- Mumbai Expressway is a flagship greenfield project under \xe2\x80\x98Bharatmala Pariyojna\xe2\x80\x99. The project is being executed under 48 sub-projects, out of which 17 are Hybrid Annuity Model projects (Vadodara-Mumbai segment) and 31 are under EPC Model (Delhi- Vadodara segment).'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tHosts the first roadshow in Maharashtra, bringing together state and public sector officials to discuss the future of digital governance\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCommits to partnering on the critical digital skills and technology required for Maharashtra\xe2\x80\x99s digital success'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tAmbuja Cement will run a waste management drive during the India England T20 five-match series through its in-house waste management arm Geocycle as part of the Net Zero pledge of LafargeHolcim group globally.  \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAims to collect and manage around 3-4 tonnes of waste and approximately 1 tonne of single-use plastic ( state Co2)  \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe collected waste will be safely re-purposed in the cement kiln as an alternative fuel at the Ambujanagar plant.   \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWith sustainability at the heart of its global strategy, Ambuja is committed to building a world that works for people and the planet.  A greener world: low carbon and circular; A world that is smarter: innovation-driven and digital; and A world that works for all: connecting people and society.'
Creating smart cities and towns in India can be the solution we are looking for, in terms of accelerated economic growth'
The application window for the scheme has been opened till March 31 which may be further extended, as per guidelines issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT (Meity).'
\xe2\x80\x9cWith the capabilities to unleash the power of data analytics, artificial intelligence, and machine learning, IUDX will enable higher operational efficiency in city administration by facilitating the data exchange between various civic bodies, municipal departments, application developers, and data consumers\xe2\x80\x9d, asserts Dr. Inder Gopal, CEO IUDX Program and Research Professor \xe2\x80\x93 Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld.'
During the pandemic, the Government had rolled out a huge relief package primarily through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in bank accounts. Our retailer-driven assisted model was instrumental in reaching out to this bottom of the pyramid population. Our low-cost tech-enabled platform disbursed more than 10 million subsidies and NEREGA payments to needy people in a span of 90 days \xe2\x80\x9c, asserted Ketan Doshi, Managing Director, Paypoint India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts Below:'
On February 26, 2021 the Governor of Haryana Mr. Satyadeo Narayan Arya gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2021. This bill accomplished one of the key promises made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party during the Assembly elections of 2019.'
The firm was engaged for Consultancy services for four-laning of Parwanoo-Solan Section in the state of Himachal Pradesh.  However, it failed to deliver as per the Contract provisions which led to the loss of time and increased costs, besides litigation.'
REC Limited, Navratna company under the Ministry of Power, along with Power Finance Corporation Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on 9th March 2021 with Kholongchhu Hydro Energy Ltd. (KHEL) for financing of 600 MW Hydro Electric Project at TrashiYangtse, Bhutan.'
Demonstrating the Cooperation to Strengthen Connectivity in the Northeast Region and between India and Bangladesh'
b"In a bid to achieve India's renewable energy target of 175 GW by 2022, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has laid major emphasis on clean energy in her Budget speech. Allocating additional capital infusion of \xe2\x82\xb91,000 crore to Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) and \xe2\x82\xb91,500 crore to Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) will give a boost to the non-conventional energy sector."
Encompassing Urban Transportation, Information & Technology, Energy, Payments, e-Governance, e-Education, e-Health, and Agriculture, as part of the Connected Citizen Ecosystem'
The deal between IMPCL and GeM was finalized on March 3, according to an official statement. \xe2\x80\x8
b"The Government Order issued by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das said the promotion of the 1988 batch officer Y Srilakshmi was on an 'ad hoc basis'."
To adapt to the new normal, people from low-income or vulnerable communities needed resources for building new skills or sharpening ones they hadn\xe2\x80\x99t used lately.'
Global spending on smart cities initiatives was estimated to hit nearly $124 billion last year, according to the International Data Corporation (IDC), in a study released before worldwide lockdowns to contain the coronavirus pandemic.'
Launched on the 15th of August, 2020, the e-Beat Book is currently functional in 1,752 beats across the city.'
Suneel Anchipaka, Deputy Commissioner and Chairman, district Health Society of South Andaman informed that the Maternity Home is the first of its kind in the A & N Islands and constructed through the District Health Society (SA) under National Health Mission to provide a staying facility at a minimal fee to the poor pregnant women of Inter Islands for better health care delivery services.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tIndiGrid signs share purchase agreement to acquire NER-II Transmission Project from Sterlite Power\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAcquisition will be at an enterprise value of ~INR 46.25 Bn\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAcquisition to add ~INR 400-450 Mn p.a. to the net distributable cash flow'
The government recognizes that managing the process of urbanization is increasingly important for the ongoing urban transformation. In this regard, NIUA has been set up with a mission to develop new research and expertise for supporting innovations in the urban sector and their dissemination through action research and advocacy, capacity building. Elaborates Hitesh Vaidya, Director, National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World.'
Millions of residents in the state of Texas had to face rolling blackouts for days while many of its electricity consumers were left holding hefty electricity bills. The reasons for this can be attributed to three key issues, namely, the unpreparedness of the entire power system to face such weather and demand conditions, an isolated state grid, and a deregulated electricity market for some.'
Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world'
While contactless services and technology interventions have become the accepted norms of the present and the coming future, many industries have started adopting digitalization to drive business efficiencies and better stakeholder experiences.'
With a fast-developing world-class sporting ecosystem, 5 leading cities - Delhi, Mumbai, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, and Ahmedabad \xe2\x80\x93 are fast-tracking India\xe2\x80\x99s journey to emerge as a leading sports destination. The report, launched at the 6th edition of CII\xe2\x80\x99s 2-day global sports summit Scorecard 2021, is aimed at capturing positives, areas of improvement and the way forward for these leading sports cities of India, and is supplemented with a calendar for sports events scheduled to take place in India this year.'
Renewable energy to be the mainstay of responsible growth for India\xe2\x80\x99s largest data centre operator\n-         Company targets to source a large part of its electricity from renewable sources to power its data centers by 2025\n-         With 17 operational facilities across eight cities, this commitment towards renewable energy is one of the largest in the country by a data center operator'
Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs declared the results of Municipal Performance Index 2020 today.  New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was declared first in Municipal Performance Index and best performing Municipality in all State and UTs under less than a million population category.'
Wipro to be one of the largest providers of integrated, end-to-end consulting, digital, cloud and IT transformation services at scale'
-\tThe concluding ceremony was attended by Mr. Nitin Gadkari Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Minister for Road Transport and Highways \n-\tA promising platform for \xe2\x80\x98Changing the way we move\xe2\x80\x99 enabling productive collaborations between the two countries to solve mobility challenges'
Loom Solar has been on the forefront of working on the agenda of harnessing solar energy while confirming to \xe2\x80\x98Make in India\xe2\x80\x99 mission.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe observations were made in a draft study presented by TERI at the Roundtable Dialogue on Responsible Consumption and Production conducted under a collaborative initiative by UNEP, SWITCH-Asia, and TERI\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe report especially recommends reporting on groundwater among natural resources'
Providing technology-led security to urban India with the smart and safe City program'
An estimated cost of INR 106 crores the project involves the construction of infrastructures including, road, parking, street-lights, water, electricity, community facility, parks etc. The Fintech Park will be a combined developmental project for both IT and Finance, with huge work-spaces for both the departments.'
The 1985 batch top IAS officer has earlier served for several important portfolios under the Maharashtra government and of late has released charges as Additional Chief Secretary, Home.'
This is a unique event achieved by IJMII which is a first in terms of quantum and duration for National Highway Projects in India.'
The smooth implementation of FASTag has witnessed growth of 20% in terms of Electronic Toll Collection transactions and 27% in terms of collection of user fees through FASTag.'
Through a campaign, Delhi government urged private vehicle owners to shift to electric vehicles.'
Under the smart city projects, the Cochin Smart Mission authorities completed the renovation work at 20 roads in Kochi city and 15 roads in West Kochi.'
As per a statement from the Housing Ministry, these houses are to be constructed under various verticals of PMAY(U).'
A slew of projects administered by Nashik Smart City Corporation is to be completed on fast track mode which includes the LED screens at Panchavati divisional office building at NMC which will be monitored by 35 operators, 20 operators will be working at the other center set up at the headquarters of the city police commissionerate.'
According to the new digital media guidelines set by the government, OTT platforms for Digital content must appoint a Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact person, and a Resident Grievance Officer as per the new social media regulatory norms.'
As per the Uniform Framework for Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR, under Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016) released by Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, plastic producers, importers, and brand owners (PIBOs) that use plastic for packaging are accountable for managing the end waste.'
The Digital initiatives were launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs along with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The event was attended by Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Electronics and IT and Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Housing and Urban Affairs'
NHAI has decided to launch a drive for Independent Inspection of its ongoing National Highways projects across the country, by involving reputed retired government officials.'
The platform is Indian digital file storage, sharing, and management SaaS product that provides storage options for businesses as well as individual users. It provides an easy and secure way to store all the files in one centralized location.'
The Central Pollution Control Board states that India generates around 26,000 tonnes of plastics every day from urban areas. It also reports that plastic waste on average accounts for 6.92% of municipal solid waste. About 40% of this plastic waste remains uncollected.'
In the initial phase of the pandemic, when there was a complete lockdown for a fairly long period, banking-related services were declared as essential services. Digital payment was the only convenient mode in such a situation.'
This project is NEC\xe2\x80\x99s 8th smart city project, underscoring the commitment to help realize the Smart City Mission of the Government of India'
The unique initiative by NDMC will enable a better door-to-door collection of solid waste in NCR.'
In its latest commissioned projects with Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) and Chennai Metro Rail Ltd, (CMRL), the company continues its commitment towards engineering a sustainable and energy-efficient future for the nation'
For developing an increasingly digital-first country with the long-term goal to create a progressive and prosperous future for all in sync with the tenets of sustainable development.'
ULBs efficiently monitored health services, provided relief and response, and maintained essential services. The \xe2\x80\x9cnew normal\xe2\x80\x9d in the post-COVID world will most visibly manifest in our cities as we wonder how the pandemic will reshape how we live, work and play. Writes O P Agarwal, CEO, WRI India, and Hitesh Vaidya, Director, National Institute of Urban Affairs'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe MoU will have a preincubation program for 240 aspiring entrepreneurs and incubation program with 60 entrepreneurs from Telangana & Jammu and Kashmir catering 30 from each state.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe partnership will take start-ups from ideation and prototypes into viable enterprises.'
b"The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, while hailing the role played by IT sector in boosting the nation's economy urged them to help achieve the country, newer benchmarks."
NDMC had been operating diesel fuel-based compactors for a long and has now switched over to CNG propelled compactors. These compactors build upon the Tata 1412 chassis having a capacity of 10 cubic Meters.'
The two tech giants teamed up to generate business worth $1 billion each on the segment of 5G, cybersecurity and cloud services to its global customers.'
By tapping into Indian consumers\xe2\x80\x99 existing awareness around the effects of climate change on their health, there is an opportunity to make connections to green building as an upstream solution.'
Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA while launching the Enrolment Module for Technograhis through video conferencing, in the presence of Joint Secretary MoHUA, Amrit Abhijat, Mishra urged students, technicians and faculties of IITs, NITs and Engineering Colleges to evolve as Technograhis in building New India.'
Smart Cities are undoubtedly the future. It has brought an onset of new technology, new developments in infrastructure solutions and even enhanced the original concept of smart cities.'
Smart Cities are set to gain further traction post the pandemic, with providers focusing on developing data-driven infrastructure to provide appropriate healthcare facilities and public security services.'
The service will soon be started by the Smart City authority in Chandigarh and will enable in easily accessing property locations.'
Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Chief Minister, Shri Thiru Edappadi K. Palaniswami unveiled AG&amp;P\xe2\x80\x99s Piped Natural Gas (PNG) project in Rameshwaram & dedicates the State\xe2\x80\x99s first City Gate Station & CNG Mother Station launched by AG&amp;P in Ramanathapuram District\n \n\xe2\x97\x8f\tA total of INR 2,700 crores is invested over the next 8 years to ensure continuous access to clean and low-cost natural gas in Tamil Nadu\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tThe Investment is expected to generate 7,000 direct and indirect local jobs'
The pandemic has encouraged us to realign our priorities in life \xe2\x80\x93 both on a personal and professional level. As the world gears up to reopen amidst a mass vaccination drive, governments and organizations all over the world are striving to put the health, wellness and safety of their citizens and people first.'
Enters into MoU in the state of West Bengal to enable investment of Rs. 10,000 crores'
On Sunday, PM Modi laid the foundation stone for several projects and handed over the Arjun Main Battle Tank to the Army in Chennai.'
Each of the units is equipped with modern facilities and will be installed at the hospital to treat Covid-19 cases.'
Hitachi World aims to be a One-Stop-Shop for consumers, architects, consultants, developers, and builders of Gujarat by offering the ultimate experience of the company\xe2\x80\x99s latest designs and innovations in Air Conditioning'
Our cities are busier than they have ever been - a record number of vehicles traveling to and from work, school, the gym, and wherever else commuters need to be on a daily basis. Using conventional traffic enforcement techniques can only go that far. One of the ways to solve this is to use cutting-edge technology that\xe2\x80\x99s as configurable, adaptable, is able to deliver solutions suited to match the emerging needs of traffic and civic authorities.'
It is easy to think, like many others, that a post-COVID smart community is one that has the latest gadgets like temperature sensors and atmospheric pollutant sensors. And while these are important and beneficial, they are still an extension of the old-fashioned, reactive approach.'
Transaction value of as many as INR 18.37 crore transactions have taken place since September 2015, asserted the Union Minister of Electronics and Information Technology.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tClimate Justice is inspired by a vision of trusteeship where growth comes with greater compassion to the poorest: PM Modi\n\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEnergy and industry transition, adaptation and resilience, nature-based solutions, climate finance, circular economy, clean oceans, air pollution, among a range of topics is being discussed at the 20th edition of TERI\xe2\x80\x99s WSDS'
The sector is expected to reach revenues of $12.2 billion by 2030, finds Frost & Sullivan'
The administrative order came in on behalf of the government of West Bengal on Tuesday'
Enabled through Masterpass & AGS QRCash, Mastercard cardholders can now withdraw cash from ATMs by just scanning a QR code using a smartphone'
In the Union Budget 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has made much-required provisions for the green mobility and public transport system. As per the budget announcements, we can see a plan to increase public buses running in many Indian cities. The cities with more than five lakh plus people will be getting more than 20,000 buses. Such cities include Union Territories, Hill cities and capitals of North East States, etc.'
b"The city's economy generates a lot of jobs which attract people from all over. Pune remains a dominant employment generator in India because it is driven by three major industries - manufacturing, IT/ITeS and services. These jobs attract people from other cities and rural areas, which in turn creates demand for housing. The only fitting response to this demand is real estate development."
"Our strategy is DTP (Distribution, Technology, and Partnerships) and our approach is PHYGITAL, having a mix of physical outlets with digital platforms. Customers have a choice to avail of our services either at a physical outlet with assistance from the merchant or branch staff or carry out transactions on their own through BPay, our mobile banking app", asserted Anand Bhatia, CMO & Head Analytics, Fino Payments Bank in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld.'
b"\xe2\x80\xa2\tCollaboration to establish an Authorized Maintenance Centre (AMC) at HAL for the Adour Mk871 engines for international military customers \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tLetter of Intent to \xe2\x80\x98Make in India\xe2\x80\x99 engine parts for the Adour Mk871 engine to support Rolls-Royce's global customers\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAgreement to expand sourcing for Trent engines from India with  forgings for Rolls-Royce civil aerospace engines being developed and supplied by HAL"
The IT sector enabled business continuity by introducing tools and models that we can strongly state were not \xe2\x80\x98temporary-gap\xe2\x80\x99 arrangement. Experts say that the industry saw a leap in digital adoption at a rate worth 3-5 years in just the last nine months of 2020.'
b"This ordinance was once again mentioned in Union Budget 2021-22, but with a clearer definition on what constitutes a 'residential unit'. It is now defined as 'an independent housing unit with separate facilities for living, cooking and sanitary requirement, distinctly separated from other residential units within the building, which is directly accessible from an outer door or through an interior door in a shared hallway and not by walking through the living space of another household."
The digitally transformed PCSCL e-Governance platform will offer a robust, flexible, scalable, integrated and transparent system that will enable the business processes of over 8 Zones and 32 wards of the civic body across Pimpri-Chinchwad city in Maharashtra.'
The global alliance combines the value of Alteryx analytics and data science automation with HCL\xe2\x80\x99s digital transformation services and expertise'
- Court-ordered TRAI and Telcos to implement TCCCPR in a strict and proper manner\n-  Implementation of TCCCPR is a first for any country and will protect citizens from fraudulent communication\n- All telcos required to take strict action against telemarketers for fraud calls and SMSs\n- Paytm can approach HC if its users get targeted by fraudsters using UCC'
b"The grid will facilitate load growth, power reliability to benefit over 2000 industrial units\n The move will contribute towards reviving Delhi\xe2\x80\x99s Economy post unlock\n Inauguration was done by Shri Satyendar Jain, Hon'ble Power Minister, Govt. of NCT of Delhi"
Regional sources of biomass\xe2\x80\xafburning and\xe2\x80\xafindustries main contributors to\xe2\x80\xafDelhi\xe2\x80\x99s air\xe2\x80\xafpollution during lockdown,\xe2\x80\xafthe report\xe2\x80\x99s findings suggest.'
b"Lauding the path-breaking initiatives of Kerala in e-governance, experts from across the globe today said that th-'\ngovernance milestones and benchmarks that Kerala has set continue to be relevant when it comes to adopting electronic and digital technology."
b"Budget 2021: Goa CM thanks PM Modi,  Sitharaman for Rs 300 cr allocation to mark Goa's liberation"
In a bid to boost the supply of affordable rental housing facilities for migrant workers, the finance minister proposed to allow a new tax exemption for Affordable Rental housing projects'
In the budget session for fiscal year 2021 and 2022, Indian Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, today emphasized on bringing out Digital Census at an estimated budget of INR 12000 crore.'
b"The GOI introduced the Smart Cities Mission intending to create 100 smart and progressive cities across India by 2023. This translates into a heavy influx to these cities, which is likely to put greater pressure on urban city planners to ensure sustainable quality of life in these 'Smart Cities'."
\xe2\x80\xa2\tAchieves first milestone of its 100 MW integrated project\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tGoa has also set on the path of self-reliance as nearly all of Goa\xe2\x80\x99s current power requirement till now was met by other states'
\xe2\x80\xa2\t2.34 million smart meters are projected to be installed in the state\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tMarks the commercial launch of smart prepaid system for Bihar utilities'
It is also working on plans to bring up Smart Manufacturing Competency Center (SMCC) that will again be First-Of-A-Kind platform to showcase digital solutions.'
The joint integration to deliver seamless management of surveillance videos from on-site Intelligent VMS 3.0 to Cloud Object Storage'
Simplifying the way to the Cloud: DE-CIX India now offers a direct service to Oracle Cloud'
A data center is the backbone of enterprise data storage solutions. With the increasing amount of data, evolving data workloads, and valuable insights from this data, we are witnessing the modernization of data centers. The Indian data center market is observing robust growth in the era of virtualization and cloud computing.'
The EV charger has been installed by Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Efficiency Service Limited (EESL) at the Assembly Complex of Goa Legislative Secretariat. It is a 142 KW fast charger and is the first among the 12 public EV chargers to be set up by CESL.'
The state government has advised the citizen beneficiaries to update their Aadhaar Cards with updated mobile numbers at eSEVA or MEESEVA centers before the new policy comes into effect.'
"While municipal bonds do present themselves as long term financing instruments. However, for the debt to be sustainable, the rate of nominal economic growth should be ideally higher than the average rate of interest. Moreover, it calls for greater accountability through periodic reporting for credit rating purposes \xe2\x80\x93 something which most cities may not have prior experience in", asserts Sridhar Gadhi, Founder and Executive Chairman, Quantela Inc. in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities.'
The year 2020 witnessed a slew of powerful measures such as the announcement of privatization of DISCOMs in the Union Territories, the special liquidity infusion of INR 90,000 crores into the distribution utilities and the increased focus on consumer rights that set the stage for greater structural reforms in the power. This trend is expected to continue in 2021.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tGlobal institutional investor CDPQ to carry out its first transportation investment in India with the purchase of a 67-kilometer expressway from BRNL and its partners.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe asset will be the first of a new CDPQ-owned platform dedicated to road infrastructure in India\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe sale will allow BRNL to reduce the debt and also to utilise the proceeds for organic and inorganic growth'
Eight start-ups selected from seven cities In India across healthcare, education, and agriculture sectors.\nThe program is designed to guide growth-driven enterprises to market success, access to venture capital funding.'
The Chief Minister will dedicate this innovative process to the people on January 25.'
Signs MoU to develop a \xe2\x80\x98Sustainable Energy Digital Platform (SEDP)\xe2\x80\x99 with Infosys\nThe announcement made at the IntelliSmart Leadership Roundtable on \xe2\x80\x98Realising the Vision of Digital Smart Grid in India\xe2\x80\x99'
In the Indian context, urbanization has been at its fastest. This keeps the consumption and demand for energy at a high at all times. India\xe2\x80\x99s population is about 17.7% of the world population making us the second largest. We consequently become the biggest energy consumer in the world after China (as of 2019 statistics). The global increase in the consumption of energy which was lead by renewable resources and natural gas.'
\xe2\x80\xa2       Dell Technologies extends its cyber-resilient server architecture with unique features to verify supply chain integrity, protect the boot process and offer dynamic system lockdown \n\xe2\x80\xa2       The company extends data security-focused services to entire infrastructure portfolio and third-party products\n\xe2\x80\xa2       Dell Technologies makes the industry\xe2\x80\x99s most secure commercial PCs1 even more so with new secure supply chain offerings'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tFrom a low of INR 24 Crores in 2011-12, 2019-20 revenues have grown to INR 43 crores \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tYoY improvement in bill distribution rose from 55,462 in 2011-12 to 808,121 in 2019-20\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tPCMC Water Dept is now saving approximately 31,000 million liters of water per year while measuring approximately 90,000 million liters of water per year'
-\tIn the 1st Phase, Energy Efficient PNG Cook Stove (EEPS) program will be implemented in select cities and 10 lakh Energy Efficient PNG based cookstoves will be distributed\n-\tThe program will be available to all the PNG consumers, wherein they may opt for either the upfront payment model or EMI model'
-\tIn the 1st Phase, Energy Efficient PNG Cook Stove (EEPS) program will be implemented in select cities and 10 lakh Energy Efficient PNG based cookstoves will be distributed\n-\tThe program will be available to all the PNG consumers, wherein they may opt for either the upfront payment model or EMI model'
-\tIn the 1st Phase, Energy Efficient PNG Cook Stove (EEPS) program will be implemented in select cities and 10 lakh Energy Efficient PNG based cookstoves will be distributed\n-\tThe program will be available to all the PNG consumers, wherein they may opt for either the upfront payment model or EMI model'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tIn the first of its governments have joined hands to supercharge the growth of the women-led start-ups in the focus sectors.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t240 women entrepreneurs will be selected for the pre-incubation program and a total of 20 will be shortlisted for the co-incubation program.'
\xe2\x80\x9cPlastic Lao \xe2\x80\x93  Mask Pao\xe2\x80\x9d kiosk inaugurated at Khan Market \n The target of collecting 80-100kg Plastic waste every day\n2 Metric tons of plastic waste collected at the Connaught Place kiosk'
Honorable Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Mr Hardeep Singh Puri conferred the awards at the second edition of Janaagraha City Governance Awards held online on January 12, 2021'
The need for cloud-based ERP is evident from the size of the cloud ERP market \xe2\x80\x94 currently estimated at USD 45.3 billion and projected to reach USD 101.1 billion by 2025.'
b"The event was graced with the presence of Shri Narendra Modi, Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, in presence of Shri Piyush Goyal, Hon'ble Minister of Railways, Commerce & Industry, Shri Manohar Lal Khattar, Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Chief Minister of Haryana and Shri Ashok Gehlot, Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Chief Minister of Rajasthan."
The innumerable socio-ecological issues faced by our planet and ever-diminishing resource repositories highlight the urgency for change. And while it is every single individual\xe2\x80\x99s responsibility to work towards protecting the environment, corporates do make a substantial contribution to environmental degradation.'
The existing Swachhata App is relaunched in wake of the current Covid pandemic situation with 9 additional categories of complaints specific to the virus.'
Yash Garg, a 2009 batch IAS officer is to replace Khatri, who has moved on for study leave till October 2022 to pursue a course in the United States.'
In a major bureaucratic rejig action, the Government of Rajasthan has ordered transfer of 21 IAS officers.'
Development of the coastal areas and welfare of hardworking fishermen is one of the important priority of the Government: PM'
b"Web Werks, one of India\xe2\x80\x99s leading data centers is proud to be the exclusive technology partner of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) with the Department of Environment and Climate Change in their endeavor of the #Epledge initiative \xe2\x80\x93 'Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan'."
The Company has declared a dividend of Rs six per share, i.e.,60 percent of the equity share capital, which amounts to Rs 24.99 crore for the financial year (FY) 2019-20.'
Tata Power, India\xe2\x80\x99s largest integrated power company, announced its partnership with SIDBI (Small Industries Development Bank of India) to offer easy and affordable financing scheme for MSME customers in the rooftop solar segment.'
b"According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will also dedicate 'National Atomic Timescale', and 'Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya' to the nation, and lay the foundation stone of the 'National Environmental Standards Laboratory'."
b"Power PSUs' joint venture EESL plans to install at least 500 more electric vehicles (EV) charging stations in the country during fiscal 2020-21."
b"'DigiNest' will enable citizens to check department-wise contact numbers of various officers, and help them reach out with ease to the officers by calling or sending E-mail."
The government has received 400 nominations which were evaluated by IIT-Delhi, followed by Jury members and 20 were finally selected.'
The platform will enable enhanced transparency, improved efficiency, increased accountability, assured data integrity and rapidly accessible archives along with a major reduction in the use of paper.'
The bureaucratic restructuring announced by the Bihar Government marks some of the most important transfers in the state.'
The Light House Projects will be undertaken at Rajkot in Gujarat, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Ranchi in Jharkhand, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, and Agartala in Tripura.'
in India, our government acted on time to take the measures necessary to keep trade and business functional using the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme. Domestic businesses and entrepreneurs were being counted on to keep the cogs running.'
\xe2\x80\x9cIn India the acceptance of new technology is pretty high, but the challenge is to change the mind-set from traditional ways of cleaning. Individuals are used to cleaning their floors every day, and they like to do both dry sweeping and wet mopping. The idea is to show them how this can be done effortlessly with the help of these devices. Automating cleaning processes is surely feasible on a long term basis\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted  Milind Gandhe - Head, Systems Business Unit at Tata Elxsi in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
As one of the leading FMCG companies in the country, HCCB has made different interventions around its 15 factories under HCCB\xe2\x80\x99s Model Village Initiative program. These include provisions for clean drinking water, hygiene and sanitation facilities, healthcare, education, and means and methods for sustainable agriculture. In Medanahalli, a small village in Ramanagara district, Karnataka, HCCB initially identified the requirements of the 225+ households in the village.'
\xe2\x80\x98The Good Politician\xe2\x80\x99 is geared to nurture grassroots political leaders who are already involved in the political sphere. Spanning over one year, it is meant for leaders aspiring to be elected as sarpanches and municipal councilors. To ensure access to a range of people, the program will be taught in Hindi and English.'
HCCI is proud of its CSR education outreach and considers this institute as a positive and timely societal responsibility initiative. The center will cover more than 350 students every year across multiple batches.'
The construction sector has been significantly affected by the COVID-19 crisis. The interconnectedness, complexity and collaborative nature of the construction industry\xe2\x80\x99s supply chains and workforce affect the cost and schedule of infrastructure projects.'
b"Bengaluru has been most successful in latching on to the global IT boom, transforming the metro from a Pensioners' Paradise and a Garden City to a high-tech IT conurbation within a few decades."
Real estate has a multiplier effect on the Indian economy with several allied industries reflecting the changes in this sector. Recognizing this, the government announced several initiatives to encourage investment in the sector.'
At a webinar organized by NASSCOM CoE Vizag, DCIL talked about opportunities that technology start-ups have to work with one of the largest PSUs'
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) under the category \xe2\x80\x98Excellence in Digital Governance \xe2\x80\x94 State/UT\xe2\x80\x99 will confer the award.'
The move is in line with the Centre\xe2\x80\x99s deadline to complete the first phase of smart city projects across the country by FY22.'
The state government has transferred senior 1990-batch IAS officers, Vivek Kumar to the state forest department.'
The first draft of the Right to Education Act (RTE) was put together during his tenure as the Prime Minister of India. Many might remember SSA through \xe2\x80\x98School Chale Hum\xe2\x80\x99 ads on the TV, but behind it was India\xe2\x80\x99s most successful school education scheme which formed the bedrock for India\xe2\x80\x99s educational transformation.'
The merger of Film Media Units under one corporation will lead to convergence of activities & resources and better coordination, thereby ensuring synergy & efficiency in achieving the mandate of each media unit.'
In connection with the long pending issues with the state government in Bengal over the non-release of funds to beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin), the Central Government succeeded partially in pushing the state to release some funds.'
The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday transferred two senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, J. Syamala Rao and K. Sunitha, and relieved a couple more from full additional charges.'
Under the MOU, HDFC and IGBC will promote green housing by jointly organizing training and awareness programs to facilitate capacity building across the country.'
Experts from India and the UK deliberated on scaling up adaptation to build resilient countries, communities and corporates. They were speaking in the last of the four-part COP 26 webinar series organized by TERI, in partnership with the British High Commission, New Delhi. These discussions were held under the aegis of TERI\xe2\x80\x99s annual conference, the World Sustainable Development Summit, to be held in February 2021.'
Essar Projects Ltd, a part of Essar Capital\xe2\x80\x99s technology and services portfolio, today said its subsidiary Essar Projects PNG (EPPNG) has won a contract worth over USD 62 million from the national government of Papua New Guinea to construct a provincial headquarters and associated works in the Jiwaka province.'
b"Indeed, modern India\xe2\x80\x99s urban development seems to be nullifying our traditional wisdom borne out of the country\xe2\x80\x99s varied climatic conditions. The situation is such that in today's buildings, provisions like natural ventilation have become an exception."
As businesses continue to find newer ways of functioning and survival amidst the pandemic, their expectations from business intelligence and analytics have also changed. These unprecedented circumstances have fostered the need for faster, real-time analytics that empowers businesses to trigger informed actions instantly.'
Digital transformation empowers CTOs and CIOs to guide their organizations in rediscovering and differentiating themselves by taking an \xe2\x80\x9coutside/in\xe2\x80\x9d perspective. The most successful companies have used it for just such rediscovery.'
Digitalization is riding other sectors now whether agritech or automobile. The pre-COVID era was when manufacturing was based out of geography which created economic triangle for the world, in post-COVID era it is changing from such a monopoly regime to a concept of trusted global supply chain partners.'
The global rapid urbanization is evident by the rise in the number of megacities. Most of these are located in Asia and Africa. Currently, 22 out of 33 cities with a population of over 10 million are in Africa and Asia.'
Shri Bharadwaj elaborated his hope for the private security industry in India with their standard of operation at the national level security leadership summit organized by CAPSI.'
Of the world\xe2\x80\x99s 7 billion population, about 4 billion live in cities. And the number is slated to increase rapidly in the coming years. Haas School of Business estimates that by 2025, around 600 largest cities in the world will account for more than 60% of global GDP. This means our cities will have to be not just sustainable but also secure and inclusive.'
The study was conducted by TERI with an objective to assess the operational and financial feasibility of EVs in the urban freight (UF) segment by undertaking a survey-based analysis of five sectors across three cities namely Delhi, Bengaluru and Surat.'
The pact will enable the start-ups to promote new industries in the region.'
Organize five-series virtual programs to help Indian businesses leverage the global opportunity and grow their business and Indian exports'
The changing payment landscape in India has raised the bar for technology players as well as solution providers.'
A part of the statewide joint effort between Mahavitaran and EESL, the project will provide farmers eight hours of high-quality uninterrupted and cleanly generated power'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tCommits to doubling its energy productivity by 2030 \n\xe2\x97\x8f\tAims to reduce carbon intensity by 60% by 2030'
Aims to adopt 100 Atal Tinkering Labs and augment youth-led startups with Atal Incubation Centers'
This investment of Rs. 5,000 Crores by Torrent Gas in development of CGD infrastructure is expected to have a major impact on the socio-economic development of the region by attracting fresh investment in the State which requires the availability of natural gas as a pre-requisite, improving the competitiveness of existing industries using natural gas and increased savings for families and small businesses using CNG and natural gas.'
After launching the song Shri Dharmendra said that NDMC Swachhta song shall unify all its citizens and keep them motivated in one platform with the objective of achieving the goals of Swachh Bharat Mission and upcoming Swachh Survckshan 2021.'
Under the multi-year engagement, LTTS will help Schindler accelerate its digitization and connectivity initiatives'
Honorable Minister for Road Transport & Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Shri Nitin Gadkari'
The scheme worth Rs 5,555.38 crore is aimed at providing water to over 41 lakh villagers in Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts of Uttar Pradesh.'
Research from Amdocs reveals Indian enterprises focusing on hiring and reskilling employees on cloud services'
Securing 5G Unlocks Potential to Transform Industries'
Analysing under-construction projects and capital invested or committed, an ANAROCK-Mace report titled \xe2\x80\x98Navigating the India Data Centre Lifecycle \xe2\x80\x93 Trends & Perspectives\xe2\x80\x99 reveals that India will see at least 28 large hyperscale data centers constructed over the next three years'
BharatPe, India\xe2\x80\x99s largest merchant payment company, today announced aggressive expansion plans across tier-1, 2 and 3 cities in the country. The company, that is currently present in 35+ cities, plans to substantially scale up its presence by adding another 30 cities to its list by December 2020.'
b"Birlasoft brings Esker's cloud technology suite to global customers"
The partnership will help organizations protect against next-gen vulnerabilities.'
Featuring automation and flexible deployment for on-premises and cloud environments, Enterprise PKI Manager helps organizations easily deploy digital certificates to secure users, devices and applications'
Palo Alto Networks today introduced Enterprise Data Loss Prevention (DLP)\xe2\x80\x94a cloud-delivered service that brings a fresh, simple and modern approach to data protection, privacy and compliance.'
The MoU was signed in the presence of Shri R. K. Singh, Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Minister (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri Nilesh Cabral, Power Minister, Goa, Shri Sanjiv Nandan Sahai, Secretary, Ministry of Power and other senior officers of the Ministry.'
Strategic partnership enables cloud technology adoption in highly data compliant sectors in Switzerland'
Happiest Minds Technologies Limited, a \xe2\x80\x98Born Digital. Born Agile\xe2\x80\x99, digital transformation and IT Solutions Company and Io-Tahoe have entered a strategic partnership to provide their esteemed clients with effective Data Discovery and Governance solutions.'
In a notification dated November 9, the President has approved the order to bring web films, digital news, etc. under the Information & Broadcasting ministry headed by Prakash Javadekar.'
Technology, a key to enduring the coronavirus pandemic and emerging stronger'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tSaves merchants from availing expensive loans by offering a low-interest rate & daily repayment flexibility \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCollateral free loans are provided in partnership with leading lenders'
The near-complete shutdown of all economic activity in many major economies worldwide earlier in the year not only invited this recession but with the health crisis due to the pandemic refusing to go away, all signs point towards a slower, prolonged and likely painful economic recovery.'
Agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors around the globe are enroute apocalyptic disruptions in trade practices and business processes. We are in between two path-breaking decades, and what threads them both is an invisible but stronger fiber of digitalization. Only digitalization will be carried forward into 2021.'
To bolster growth for electric vehicles (EV) charging infrastructure in India, Fortum signed an agreement whereby Finnfund, a Finnish development financier and professional impact investor, will invest in a minority share of Fortum\xe2\x80\x99s public charging point operator (CPO), Fortum Charge and Drive India Private Limited (FCDIPL).'
Mahagram Payments Private Ltd. a Mumbai-based \xe2\x80\x98Fintech\xe2\x80\x99 startup. It is a technology-driven company with expertise in alternate payment technologies. Their mission is to entitle each Indian with a straightforward means that of approach to digital payments.'
Restructuring office spaces along with office furniture, with a social distancing rule of six feet, will be a real challenge for architects'
Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Jal Shakti Ministry recalling how a Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Prime Minister\xe2\x80\x99s call for Aviral and Nirmal Ganga has become a mass movement at the Ganga Utsav 2020 said, \xe2\x80\x9cGanga rejuvenation is a continuous task that\xe2\x80\x99s why we have to promote public participation, we have to create a sense of duty among people, it can be done only when we are able to make people realize what Ganga offers us.\xe2\x80\x9d'
\xe2\x80\xa2        The innovation hub and ecosystem enabler has created 325+ international startup connects\n\xe2\x80\xa2        T-Hub program startups have created 15000+ jobs and raised 1800 Cr+ funding\n\xe2\x80\xa2        Continues to strive to build a future-ready innovation ecosystem'
The exclusive deal aligns industry leaders around the Digitally Empowered Contact Center solution and brings new capabilities for Associates'
~ National Informatics Centre, IEEE and Oracle joined hands to organize the nationwide virtual hackathon\n~ Winners announced'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tWE HUB creates a revolving fund through CSR from A. Murali Krishna Reddy, Chairman, MAK Group of Companies spanning Real Estate development, Construction, and Hospitality Sectors.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWE HUB has set milestones with each independent entrepreneur for effective fund utilization while mapping their progress.'
Delhi-based Infrastructure consultancy firm REPL (Rudrabhishek Enterprises Ltd.) announced that it has received orders for preparing a GIS-based master plan for 3 ULBs (Urban Local Bodies) under AMRUT, in Karnataka and for development of industrial corridor Dhuriyapar, Gorakhpur in UP respectively.'
The new Construction and Demolition (C&amp;D) waste recycling plant can process up to 500 tonnes of C&amp;D waste per day for recycled green products'
The integration of remote monitoring and accountability mechanisms has also reduced the dependence on human resources.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe three- day virtual conference was organized by IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry\xe2\x80\x99s Knowledge Committee in association with MIT-World Peace University, Pune \n\xe2\x80\xa2\t11 Cities\xe2\x80\xa611 conferences...12 engaging topics..32 engaging sessions and over 150+ Industry and Academia experts'
Lloyd\xe2\x80\x99s, the world\xe2\x80\x99s leading specialist insurance and reinsurance market, today announced a new report: Cities at risk \xe2\x80\x93 Building a resilient future for the world\xe2\x80\x99s urban centres, published in association with Urban Foresight and Newcastle University.'
The overall aim of agreement is point source pollution abatement across highly polluting industries along the Ganga River Basin.'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe urbanisation trends will push infrastructure growth in India in megacities and tier II towns. There is a need to spend about $1.4 trillion in the next five years to build this close to 30,000 kilometres of railway tracks to create new hundreds of new railway stations and refurbish existing one\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Simon Huffeteau, Vice President for Construction, Cities and Territories at Dassault Syst\xc3\xa8mes in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Smart Cities World.'
The presence of corporate hub in Manesar, Cyber Hub and Golf Course Road and Udyog Vihar and burgeoning retail spaces in the vicinity have given a fillip to commercial real estate.'
The development is a huge shot in the arm for the DSIR project which is one of India\xe2\x80\x99s first and largest Greenfield Smart city that aims to provide superlative infrastructure and sustainable environment through the application of \xe2\x80\x98smart\xe2\x80\x99 solutions.'
Many cities have focused on leveraging technology as part of their smart city plans in the areas of citizen engagement, traffic management, safety & security, emergency response, health care management, etc.'
Through its user-friendly platform, Prescinto facilitates the early identification of issues leading to asset downtime and losses, offering Macquarie a complete list of identified issues for the company to focus on in the technical management of its portfolio.'
The partnership is to provide Data Protection as a Service (DPaaS)'
The contact-less world is now being adopted at a faster rate not just by individuals but also by many industries as they are exploring newer ways to conduct business. One of the highly impacted industries is Banking and Financial industries where today lenders are looking at ways to disburse loans quickly and efficiently. Writes Sandeep Anandampillai, Co-Founder & CPO, Crediwatch.'
More than 60% of users from smaller towns & cities are experiencing digital financial services for the first time\n- Recently launched stockbroking registers over 2.5 lakh requests for early access\n- Achieves total daily investment volume of ~Rs 20 crores in Direct Mutual Funds\n- Accelerating financial inclusion by enabling technology-driven products & services to democratise wealth'
The study emphasizes that enterprises of the future will be built on a foundation of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Analytics, Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Automation, that are central to solving business problems and driving innovation.'
Water crisis is an extremely important topic not only for scientists, hydrologists or researchers, it is also important for us to take a step forward and make a difference. With the advent of this technology, we can still have a fighting chance to win this was against water scarcity.'
b"The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, in his recent Independence Day speech announced that India will get a new, 'robust' cybersecurity policy soon."
The overwhelming majority of Indian very small business owners surveyed (88 percent) believe that their business will grow in the next three to five years, with 43 percent responding they expect growth of at least 50 percent, and another 45 percent expecting to the growth of at least 25 percent.'
Speaking at TERI\xe2\x80\x99s 19th Darbari Seth Memorial Lecture, Dr. S. Jaishankar, India\xe2\x80\x99s External Affairs Minister and Ant\xc3\xb3nio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, spoke about the opportunities for global cooperation towards climate action and sustainable development.'
The project is to widen and improve the Imphal-Moreh section (29.731 km) on NH-39 in the State of Manipur.'
Structural steel tube is amongst the most preferred construction material for engineers, architects, contractors and fabricators since it is highly durable, tensile and corrosion resistant. Moreover, the rising inclination of the consumers towards pre-engineered building structures and better building materials is also expanding market share of structural steel tubes. Further, the rapidly growing green building footprint is also driving its demand.'
Scholars and Industry experts came together to discuss local solutions waste water management at a webinar organised by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on \xe2\x80\x9cDecentralized Wastewater Treatment and Local Reuse for Citywide Sanitation and Improved River Health.\xe2\x80\x9d'
Integration to enable remote IT support and provide enhanced security solutions'
New cloud solution will aid district magistrates to improve overall performance and transform the quality of life of citizens in India\xe2\x80\x99s most backward districts'
The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi recently inaugurated project the under-water optical fibre network project on Monday and promises a 2,300-km submarine optical fibre cable network that will connect the islands of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to Chennai.'
Experts discuss the opportunities and challenges in sewage treatment and management caused by unorganized and fast-paced urbanization at a Webinar Organised by National Faecal Sludge Septage Alliance'
DigiCert ONE support for strong authentication in dynamic environments, scalability, and operational integrity enables organizations to migrate network operations to 5G and cloud with confidence'
Transform mission-critical SAP applications with Google Cloud and will also roll out G Suite into its workplace productivity toolset'
Almost 68% of Indian SMBs are digitizing to bring new products and services to the market\nCloud and security are the top technology investment priorities for Indian SMBs'
CIOs must leverage emerging technologies to orchestrate company-wide transformation efforts'
India should focus on developing software products to reduce import dependence'
As India gears up to battle the current pandemic, water scarcity can be the biggest challenge facing its future. Amidst the ongoing pandemic, for the country to maintain hygiene and simultaneously contain water crisis, unwise use of clean water is not an option.'
Alliance will offer one-stop solution for state road transport corporations and other public transport operators'
-\tPlans to double revenues to Rs. 10,000 crores in the next 3 years\n-\tOperational normalcy restored back to pre-Covid levels'
Enter the digital world of Service Marketplace where any automated service for an Enterprise is pre-built, ready to be used and can be subscribed just like downloading an app from an app store. Why bother with the mess of building/ automating complex tools or solutions when you can have them as a catalog in a service marketplace. Empower users through a Consumer like an experience while maintaining your competitive edge.'
L&amp;T Technology Services Limited (LTTS)), a global leading pure-play engineering services company, today announced the appointment of Rajeev Gupta as the company\xe2\x80\x99s new Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Rajeev replaces P Ramakrishnan, who will now assume a new role in the L&amp;T Group.'
Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting, and business process services company, today announced a partnership with ComplianceQuest to develop transformative quality management solutions for the medical devices and life sciences industries.'
National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt Gen Rajesh Pant on Friday asked companies to get their cyber security audit done as the country looks to cut dependency on foreign apps and softwares'
Telangana government has asked urban local bodies to improve capabilities in resolving the public grievances, drinking water supply, street lights, health facilities, income sources, municipal audit, public involvement in various social activities.'
\xe2\x80\xa2        India\xe2\x80\x99s first car park \xe2\x80\x98Make in India\xe2\x80\x99 turnkey solution offering 100% Contact-less Transaction Experience\n\xe2\x80\xa2        Integrated & Implemented by Comvision (India) Pvt Ltd for Hyderabad Airport Parking.\n\xe2\x80\xa2        Comvision is a Gurgaon based woman owned enterprise.\n\xe2\x80\xa2        First project in India to integrate Parking with NETC FASTag \n\xe2\x80\xa2        Way to achieve \xe2\x80\x98Self reliant India\xe2\x80\x99 during Covid times\n\xe2\x80\xa2        A recognition of women power in India'
The argument being made is that Facial Recognition technology has a racial bias. In profiling & identifying individual targets, technology provides very accurate results in fair skin individuals (male/ female), but in the case of Black (mainly female), the effectiveness is very low and hence the issue of technology bias and related challenges.'
New software-defined storage offering enables flexibility and simplicity while ensuring consistent performance and resiliency at scale'
Grid-eMotion\xe2\x84\xa2 Fleet is a full \xe2\x80\x98grid-to-plug\xe2\x80\x99 solution for large-scale public transport and commercial fleets, enabling operators to charge more with less'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tSterlite Power\xe2\x80\x99s Convergence Business Unit has delivered 100% Optical Fiber Network in Gurugram sub city 2 to GMDA to make the city smart and safe\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe fiber network has provided connectivity to government buildings, business clusters, and used for critical applications like security, surveillance, and e-governance'
Nutanix Enterprise Cloud Index Report Shows Healthcare Industry Plans to Ramp Up Hybrid Cloud Adoption to Secure Patient Data and Ensure Regulatory Compliance'
b"Google recently inked a pact to invest Rs 33,737 crore ($4.5 billion) in Jio Platforms Ltd, taking a 7.73 percent stake in the company, in a bid to accelerate India's Digital economy."
Mace, the international consultancy and construction company, and ANAROCK Group, India\xe2\x80\x99s leading real estate services company have announced a collaboration to bring unique real estate services to immediately benefit the Indian market as we settle into the \xe2\x80\x98new normal\xe2\x80\x99 post the COVID-19 pandemic.'
iValue InfoSolutions has partnered with Pure Storage to offer a modern data experience for applications to help unify data for Enterprise Customers in order to innovate fast  - in the cloud and on-premises..'
As part of its integrated B2B play, Airtel is partnering with Verizon to offer \xe2\x80\x9cAirtel BlueJeans,\xe2\x80\x9d a range of secure, simple and seamless video conferencing solutions to enterprises in India'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThese water-less robots are self-powered, allow for AI-led intelligent operation and remote monitoring and communication.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWith the launch of this product, Skilancer Solar aims to capture the residential market which has a capacity of 4400 MW and is expected to reach 8500MW by the end of 2020'
Companies join forces to simplify cloud transformation and speed adoption of digital workspaces and virtual desktops to enable greater agility, productivity, and security'
Google will enable 1 million teachers in 22000 schools to deliver \xe2\x80\x9cblended learning\xe2\x80\x9d.'
Founded in 1996, IVIA provides IT solutions including system development, maintenance, consulting and project management services to clients in different sectors such as Financial Services, Transportation, Retail, Healthcare, Consumer Goods and Manufacturing in Brazil.'
b"Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive of Google's parent company Alphabet Inc.recently announced that Google will invest $10bn (\xc2\xa37.93bn) in India in the next five to seven years."
\xef\x81\xb5\t73% of boards and executive management teams perceive cybersecurity risks as significant \n\xef\x81\xb5\t68% of Indian organizations have a chief of cybersecurity who sits on the board or at executive management level\n\xef\x81\xb5\t39% organizations include cybersecurity as a critical area in the board agenda on a quarterly basis'
The Odisha government on Monday transferred 10 IAS officers in the stare in an urgent transfer order issued by the Chief Minister.'
The COVID 19 pandemic got millions across the world to work and learn from home. Being restricted and restrained, some of us discovered new facets to life and business. Among many other things, the internet became our connection to the world.'
In a sudden rejig ordered by Maharashtra government, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief Shekhar Gaikwad is shunted as the Sugar Commissioner of the state.'
There are 2,650 Akshaya centres in Kerala, 10,558 e-Sevai centres in Tamil Nadu, 4,512 meeSeva centres in Telangana and 11,105 meeSeva centres in Andhra Pradesh.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tT-Hub, along with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and Digital India, will lead the program to provide continued support and mentorship to the startups.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe program is designed for IoT (Internet of Things) and Hardware startups and will provide them with mentorship as well as exposure to the domestic and global innovation ecosystem.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tStartups can apply for the program now, and the selected 10-15 will get access to a six-month acceleration program.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tBegins operations with Value for Money and Unlimited FUP broadband plans\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCurrently serving 12K subscribers in Kanpur and 6K subscribers in Lucknow\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEyes to reach out to 50K customers by 2021'
With this, customers can now get their full KYC completed anytime between 9 am and 8 pm, from anywhere through a video call.'
-\tThe company continues to shape the market with this new generation wind turbine in the 3MW segment, which is specifically designed for the Indian winds\n-\tThe new SG 3.4-145 can operate at up to 3.6 MW with flexible rating strategy and delivers 48% more Annual Energy Production (AEP) than its predecessor in the country, the SG 2.2-122\n-\tPrototype commissioned; commercially available in India in 2020'
Immediately after his removal as OSD to state chief minister, M Sivasankar on Tuesday vacated the IT secretary post after applying for a year sabbatical. This comes after the gold smuggling allegations took an ugly turn'
Officials said that urban local bodies minister Anil Vij ordered the audit after complaints received by his department indicated the civic bodies had released payments to some contractors without completion of projects, and in few cases even before the start of work.'
LTI Canvas leverages Microsoft technologies to help enterprises adopt new ways of working'
Dhananjay in his new role will be responsible for driving F5\xe2\x80\x99s growth strategy in India and SAARC, establishing F5 as a leader in multi-cloud application services'
The International Financial Services is a recently established body to regulate all financial services in International Financial Services Centres.'
Manned by around 25 experts, the war room will operate from Delhi secretariat, where all ministers and top bureaucrats in AAP government works.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe country has bagged the 34th position on the Index and is one of the top improvers globally and regionally  \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIt has also edged into the top 20 for Sustainability Transparency \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIndia\xe2\x80\x99s rank in World Bank\xe2\x80\x99s \xe2\x80\x98Ease of Doing Business Ranking\xe2\x80\x99 improved significantly from 142 in 2014 to 63 in 2019'
Bhagalpur is a centre of health services for various adjoining smaller cities and villages. The attendant of patients does not get facilities to stay at an affordable price. With our commitment to do the customer-centric project we are developing a 100 bedded night center for the attendant of the patient. Says Sunil Kumar, CEO, Bhagalpur Smart City Limited in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
Care, creative thinking, and new tools can address customers\xe2\x80\x99 acute needs today and forge stronger ties in the post-COVID-19 era'
During the 101 days of lockdown, March 24-July 2, the online education sector grew by 23 percent as extended lockdown has led to a rise in demand for online courses'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe EY \xe2\x80\x98Sentiments of India\xe2\x80\x99 survey tracks the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on kirana stores and their evolving status within the urban consumer ecosystem \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThere has been a positive movement towards the adoption of technology with 40% respondents stating they want to partner with online delivery and supply platforms \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tConsumer loyalty is in question, providing a window for new brands to replace old loyalties, at least 69% kiranas in the non-metros were able to sell alternative brands to their customer'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tRuggedized VxRail systems with 2nd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors create powerful IT capabilities for harshest edge environments\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tVxRail introduces AMD EPYCTM processor support with compact models for space-constrained data centers and edge environments\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe only jointly engineered HCI system with VMware, VxRail delivers a hybrid cloud approach no matter where data and applications reside \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tVxRail HCI System Software enhancements further automate operations and management \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNew Intel Optane persistent memory and NVIDIA GPU options support data-intensive applications'
- To buy 100% from both Prism Johnson and QBE of Australia\n- Aims to democratise general insurance for driving financial inclusion\n- Vijay Shekhar Sharma to hold majority shareholding'
The new financing to prepay the existing project loan of INR 800 crores has been arranged by HDFC Bank. The new facility has been availed at significantly favourable terms demonstrating the considerably improved risk profile of the project post achievement of CoD (Date of Commercial Operation).'
In a recent virtual conference organized by BW Businessworld, MoHUA Secretary, Durga Shankar Mishra asserted how Integrated Command and Control Centers(ICCC) as war rooms for COVID-19. Excerpts as under'
The major bureaucratic reshuffle in Rajasthan has announced Rajeeva Swarup as the new Chief Secretary of the state, replacing D B Gupta besides transferring 100 other IAS officers.'
Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India initiated a Made in India Video Conferencing Innovation Challenge, in lieu of upholding self-reliance and \xe2\x80\x98Local for Vocal\xe2\x80\x99 sentiments.'
\xe2\x80\x9cHoneywell has rapidly innovated to extend the capabilities of our Smart and Safe City technology deployments to support customer needs. Our Command and Control Centers are being used as the nerve center for operations to help contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in specific cities. We have also developed and deployed city-specific dashboards, portals and citizen applications to engage with citizens. Authorities can communicate necessary information in a consistent manner, and citizens can get the official view of a city\xe2\x80\x99s status, reducing their need to go to different sources to gather information which at times may also be conflicting\xe2\x80\x9d: asserts Akshay Bellare, President Honeywell in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld.'
Any urbane construction has an adverse effect on the surrounding ecology, as it habitually adopts the path of heavy construction work which eventually consumes a large chunk of our green space, further intensifying the impact of the existing eco-environmental problems, such as resource consumption, climate change, and environmental degradation.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tPowerScale storage systems bring together the best in Dell EMC server hardware and storage software to help customers manage file and object data in core data centers, edge locations and public cloud \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tPowerScale OneFS operating system introduces new software capabilities, including enhanced data reduction technology, S3 object access and support for Ansible and Kubernetes. \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDell EMC DataIQ software helps organizations discover, understand and act on unstructured data across private and public cloud storage \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tSupported by Dell Technologies On Demand with flexible payment options to acquire storage capacity as needed'
Accelerated by the global COVID-19 pandemic, the world is rapidly embracing contactless payments across all public transportation benefiting millions of passengers worldwide\nAcceptance to the Visa Ready for Transit program is a milestone for O-CITY, which is already operating in over 100 cities worldwide.\nJoining the program will fast track O-CITY\xe2\x80\x99s availability globally with the adoption of best industry standards, the affiliation to the Visa network and co-innovation with all members to further drive contactless payment adoption.'
To exhibit their features and functionalities, Videonetics will be implementing their end-to-end video management system and AI enabled video analytics in conjunction with Qualcomm Technologies enabled smart cameras for use at Qualcomm Technologies\xe2\x80\x99 San Diego Morehouse campus.'
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is mandated to promote old age income security i.e. pension in India and to protect the interests of subscribers of pension systems and schemes. As part of its developmental mandate and to increase the outreach of National Pension System (NPS), PFRDA has taken series of steps to ensure ease of NPS on boarding through various convenient modes.'
The centres aims at reducing the skill gap between the students and the industry to facilitate employment opportunities in Karnataka in the realm of automotive design, engineering and manufacturing and in multi-industry processes like additive manufacturing, composites and mechatronics.'
In a bid to accelerate the progress of smart city projects under Varanasi Smart City Limited(VSCL), VSCL together with IIT-BHU signed pact and also inaugurated a virtual center Smart City Cell at the Institute.'
BharatPe, India\xe2\x80\x99s largest merchant payment, and lending network company, has announced the launch of BharatX, for development and experimentation of radical ideas to solve the next set of merchant and business problems with innovative product solutions.'
As an individual our daily activities like Personal E-mailing, Facebook, Google, and many other applications are enabled through cloud. Our work environments have been slowly migrating to Cloud over years now.'
COVID-19 may have given a pause to learning, affecting educational system worldwide; simultaneously it has given us an opportunity to explore the unexplored, to imagine the unimaginable, and ascertain the belief that nothing is impossible.'
WRSS-XIX and NERSS-IX will serve the growing power needs of Mumbai region and improve renewable power availability across the western and northeastern India'
Sanjay Mahajan has served many instrumental roles at CMI over the years, including serving as CMI\xe2\x80\x99s Chief Operating Officer since 2016 and previously leading customer and channel efforts as Vice President of Sales & Marketing from 2012.'
As per industry reports, the worldwide data is expected to grow up to 175 zettabytes by 2025 . While businesses are gearing up to make the most of this new opportunity, the rise of data has also forced them to scout for more latent models of data processing.'
Housing sales and new launches have plunged to a new low across India\xe2\x80\x99s top 7 cities in Q2 2020. Latest ANAROCK research reveals that residential sales in the quarter plummeted by 81% on yearly basis in these cities \xe2\x80\x93 from 68,600 units in Q2 2019 to just 12,720 units in Q2 2020.'
Dvara KGFS, a leading NBFC in India, with a mission to maximise the financial well-being of every individual and every enterprise by providing complete access to financial services in remote rural India, today announced transactions worth INR 7 crore achieved since 19th April, 2020 through its Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) which was implemented in the remote rural areas that they operate in.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tTelangana is among the Top 30 Global Ecosystems for Affordable Talent in 2020.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tHyderabad is among the Top 100 Emerging Ecosystems Ranking in 2020 and Startup Genome evaluated about 300 ecosystems globally.'
~ Collaboration within Tata Group companies to enable an agile response to fight the pandemic ~'
India has second highest level of security concerns among the 15 surveyed countries with a Unisys Security Index of 223 out of 300; COVID-19 has left a deep impact on the lives of Indians, with family health emerging as the #1 concern during a pandemic'
Ksubaka Reshaping the Retail landscape with Innovative Customer Experience~'
Larsen & Toubro Infotech, a global technology consulting and digital solutions company, today announced an Accelerated Migration Program for customers of SAP with Amazon Web Services (AWS).'
Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, today announced that it has been awarded a strategic, multi-year infrastructure modernization and digital transformation services engagement by Germany-based energy company E.ON.'
Partnership simplifies BIMI compliance with VMCs and DMARC enforcement to help ensure more consistent, secure email for businesses and consumers'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tLenovo\xe2\x80\x99s new ThinkSystem SR860 V2 and SR850 V2 mission-critical servers feature 3rd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable processors and support for enhanced Intel\xc2\xae Deep Learning Boost enabling customers to handle their most data-intensive workloads\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIntroduction of GPU support on the ThinkSystem SR860 V2 server (four double-wide 300W or eight single-wide GPUs) and new GPU rich configurations for the SR860 V2 to manage next-generation AI workloads, allowing customers to focus efforts on unstructured datasets to drive new insights.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tA new remote deployment service offering for the Lenovo ThinkSystem DM7100 offers up to 80% faster implementation vs. scheduling on-site deployments, reducing complications and down-time risks, speeding time to value'
With more outcome-oriented action on Ease of Doing Business, huge momentum to India\xe2\x80\x99s domestic and overseas investment can be imparted at a time when self-reliance is being strengthened, stated the Confederation of Indian Industry in a press release'
\xe2\x80\xa2         Company manages to raise  3.5 lakh bills with Actual Readings instead of Provisional ones during the lockdown ( April and May 2020)\n\xe2\x80\xa2         Prevents over 1.5 lakh visits / month to consumer premises during lockdown months\n \xe2\x80\xa2         Drive is in sync with Ministry of Power\xe2\x80\x99s vision to install 25 crore Smart Meters'
As the world reimagines new ways of working, interacting, schooling, shopping and entertainment with the help of digital technologies; the Integrated Command and Control Centers (ICCCs) have already turned into War Rooms fighting the challenges posed by the pandemic city. Writes Sameer Unhale, Municipal Corporation, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.'
\xe2\x80\xa2 Two days Online Teacher Training conducted on 17th and 18th June \n\xe2\x80\xa2 8000 teachers from 850 odd schools to participate in the training'
The squads and vehicles were launched by BBMP Commissioner B H Anil Kumar and Mayor M Goutham Kumar on Thursday, after a meeting with Health Department officials earlier in the day.'
The work at Trichy\xe2\x80\x99s Puthur fish market was stalled for over 70 days and with the labour crisis looming large the Trichy Corporation plans to extend the project deadline'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tDell Technologies is the first to deliver the latest virtualization capabilities for AI and advanced computing in VMware environments \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNew Dell EMC Ready Solutions based on VMware Validated Designs combine Dell EMC systems with VMware Cloud Foundation to speed deployment and management of AI projects through the new Bitfusion feature in VMware vSphere 7 \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDell EMC Ready Solution shown to deliver up to 18 times faster AI model development and estimated return on investment up to 111%1\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNew systems management features simplify IT supporting AI workloads'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tCisco SecureX, the broadest and most integrated cloud native cybersecurity platform, will be generally available globally on June 30, 2020.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWith remote work on the rise, CISOs can leverage SecureX to achieve unified visibility across Cisco security products, automate workflows, and quickly remediate threats.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAdditional enhancements and integrations will further secure remote workers and address the #1 threat vector, email security.'
The GDPR-Compliant platform aids employee well-being and enhances operational efficiency'
b"About 90% of the planet's population lives in places with air quality below the recommended."
\xe2\x80\xa2\tKKR has invested in o9 at over a billion USD valuation to expand its next-generation platform for integrated business planning across industry verticals and global markets including India \n\n\xe2\x80\xa2\to9 plans to hire world class technical talent from India'
The importance of owning a home has re-established itself amid the COVID-19 crisis, among other learnings of the unprecedented times that the world is facing today. In addition to avoiding the risks that come with living in a rented space, owning real estate is also seen as an important asset in one\xe2\x80\x99s investment portfolio.'
Commercial office space growth \xe2\x80\x93 on a bull-run over the last six years \xe2\x80\x93 has also hit the pause button as many large companies explore the work-from-home option.'
The Maharashtra Government will be signing 12 large Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with companies from across the globe including the US, China, South Korea and Singapore on Monday evening.'
Drives contactless shopping; digitally empowers traders in less than 2 weeks'
Phased investment of 1 Bn US$, that would generate employment for over 3000 people'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tWebex platform sees unprecedented demand and more than triples its normal volume.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAs the foremost trusted business continuity provider, Cisco invests in the resilience of Webex through the continued expansion of global capacity.  \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTo ensure customers can easily and securely collaborate from anywhere, Cisco increases Webex security capabilities and adds new integration with Box.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWebex Control Hub\xe2\x80\x99s intelligent and actionable insights help IT manage an enlarged remote workforce and a return to office. \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTo help doctors meet with patients while maintaining physical distance, new integration with Epic gives patients secure care via video.'
With the aim to provide cashless Medical facilities for COVID-19 to affect contractual and RMR employees, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has introduced a cashless medical facility in all empanelled hospitals for the Contractual and RMR employees and dependent family members with immediate effect with a period of three months.'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tT-Hub in partnership with Korea SMEs and Startups Agency (KOSME) will facilitate international market access for South Korean startups\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tSouth Korean startups were invited to explore business opportunities in the Indian innovation ecosystem, around 10 of them have been shortlisted for the first of many accelerator programs offered by T-Hub at the Korea Startup Center'
Wipro Limited , a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, today announced the launch of its Digital Inspection Solution for improved workplace safety and experience.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tFinancial Stability, Availability of Skilled Labour in MSME clusters, and Market Competitiveness of products to be the driving factors for a robust MSME sector \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tUsing a cluster approach to help upgrade MSMEs to suit the changing global landscape'
Findings from the report reveal 75% organizations require increased infrastructure budget for new tools, technologies, and collaborative networks to navigate the pandemic'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Kolkata e-buses case study highlights the importance of electrifying public transport in reducing local air pollution and emissions\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tKolkata is the only city from India cited in the publication \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tKolkata could inspire other cities, globally, to decarbonize mobility: IEA'
Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the use of TrueNet machines for COVID-19 testing.'
The attachments come on the order of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah also instructed the immediate transfer of Kumar, Priyadarshini, Rajawat and Mallik to New Delhi.'
Digital healthcare comes as a rescue for there is a shortage of 600,000 doctors and 2 million nurses in India while the number of active COVID-19 cases is wildly increasing. At this point, enabling technology in this sector could take services to far and wide places of the country to overall transform the system.'
b"Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, today announced that Wipro VirtuaDesk\xe2\x84\xa2, Wipro\xe2\x80\x99s Desktop as a Service solution and Wipro's Digital Workspace solution, will join forces with Citrix Systems, Inc. and Microsoft to help customers drive business continuity while executing operations within the boundaries of social distancing and other limitations that have currently become the new normal."
Financial Inclusion should be followed by Financial Integration through the usage of Technology, asserted Kant.'
The pandemic has had a global impact both on our lifestyle, as well as the economies of the world, which need to find its equilibrium, in order to survive. In the wake of COVID-19, most of the industries asked employees to work remotely, and the traditional working pattern has been affected tremendously.'
In this COVID-19 global pandemic era, there is not a single CFO out there who isn\xe2\x80\x99t scrutinizing their company\xe2\x80\x99s spend. Fortunately, data\xe2\x80\x99s role has exploded in the business world and is favourably impacting the situation.'
EY, a leading global professional services organization, and Automation Anywhere (AA), a leading global Robotic Process Automation (RPA) solution provider are developing RPA based tax automation solutions for the Indian market.'
The realtors attribute slew of factors including the strong digital presence to have helped the sector achieve the unthinkable. Developers or realtors of repute have been able to garner good sales as they smartly employed digital tools to reach out to the potential buyers.'
Investment expands Wipro\xe2\x80\x99s Cloud Security portfolio to meet growing demand from enterprises to protect their cloud infrastructure from identities with excessive high-risk permissions'
In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Government of Haryana transferred 18 IAS and 7 HCS officers.'
Dell Platinum Partner-Arrow PC Network, the next-gen (hybrid) SI & solution provider today announced how Hybrid Cloud solutions from Arrow PC can help in ensuring business continuity during the pandemic era.'
Smart security is moving beyond static security video recording to real-time video analytics - thanks to new AI-enabled capabilities. With the rolling-out of always-on systems, edge computing will play an essential role in capturing, collecting, and analyzing high-resolution data.'
\xe2\x80\x9cAeris has been carrying a vision to transform small to large businesses with IoT and connected technology. We have been addressing challenges faced by businesses in emerging markets and developing countries and finding right technology solutions that help customers delivering enhanced customer experiences and implementing strategies to increase revenue\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Rishi Bhatnagar, President Aeris India & Mr. Asit Goel, VP Engineering, Aeris, India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts as under:'
With the aim to provide Medical Guidance to COVID-19 affected employees, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has set-up a Medical Helpline for COVID-19 positive or affected employees of NDMC and their family members.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tEY survey, Future Consumer Index, tracks consumer behavior and sentiment in India\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe pandemic has created four new consumer behavior segments evolving in five different ones after the crisis'
Wipro Limited a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, today announced the launch of its BoundaryLess Enterprise Solution , powered by VMware Tanzu product portfolio.'
Rudrabhishek Enterprises Ltd. (REPL), a Delhi-based public limited infrastructure consultancy firm, has been awarded the Project Development and Management Consultancy by Jabalpur Smart City Limited (JSCL).'
India faces daunting water security challenges. The demands of a rapidly industrializing economy and urbanizing society come at a time when the potential for augmenting supply is limited and water issues have increasingly come to the fore. While India hosts approximately 17 percent of the world\xe2\x80\x99s population, it holds only about four percent of its required annual water resources.'
b"\xe2\x80\xa2\tAchieves Rs. 29.8 crore PAT in FY '20, profit grows by 52%\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tLaunches cheque book facility for the account holders"
Solutions such as Digital Rig will help enterprises drive agile development to support new ways of working'
Reacting to reports that some private hospitals are asking patients to pay arbitrary Covid-19 treatment charges, the Delhi government has directed all private hospitals treating such patients to display the full rate list of services,'
\xe2\x97\x8f\t78% of organizations globally (APJ[1]-72%) have believed that increased cloud management consistency will help them increase efficiency and simplify their operations \n\xe2\x97\x8f\tGlobally, 76% of organizations say that cloud management consistency will help them improve the collaboration between their IT and line of business stakeholders (APJ-73%)\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tThe study reveals that only 5% of organisations are currently maximizing  the benefits of  cloud computing with cloud consistency'
The Central Railway\xe2\x80\x99s Nagpur Division has installed an Automated ticket-checking and managing access (ATMA) facility at Nagpur railway station to ensure contactless entry for train travellers in order to avoid infection of Covid-19.'
The Delhi administration while announcing the appointment of Vikram Dev Dutt said that the top IAS officer will bring better administrative skills to contain the health crisis in the national capital.'
In the wake of the ongoing lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, environment public hearings are proposed to be conducted digitally, asserted MPCB'
Every day, we are witnessing new ways that climate change affects daily life in cities across the globe. Concerns over public health, access to basic sanitation, resource depletion and extreme weather events are starting to impact our everyday conversations and planning.'
The BMC has appointed two officials for each private hospital to keep a tab on billings. The move was taken so that private hospitals can allocate available beds and give better treatment to covid-19 patients.'
b"\xe2\x80\xa2\tUrges to make it part of the standard operating procedures for re-opening dine-in restaurants, takeaway joints\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIn talks with 10 state governments, plans to present it to all states over the next few days\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWill introduce 'Scan to Order' contactless food ordering service in over 1 lakh plus restaurants in the first phase"
Each electrical appliance has a different electrical load \xe2\x80\x93 therefore, its recommended to always sync that up with the electrical fittings of your home. For example, in the kitchen, the wiring and socket specification of a microwave is 16Amp whereas it is 6Amp for a refrigerator. Unfortunately, some of the basic information like this is often missed and leads to life-threatening ramifications. Writes Vivek Yadav, Senior Vice President, Havells India Limited.'
The dashboard will provide real-time information on covid-19 hospitals across the municipal corporation as well as the beds available in those hospitals, Annasaheb Misal, municipal commissioner, NMMC.'
The online high-level discussion, under the EU Public Diplomacy project, was held in association with the European Union-Resource Efficiency Initiative (EU-REI) and proposed ways in which resource efficiency can catalyze the economic recovery while helping India move on the path of sustainable development.'
While May 11th was considered to just another day, it was a crucial day for Bitcoin users around the world. This event occurs once every four years and reduces the rate of new Bitcoin production by half. Before diving into the significance of this event let us get a basic introduction to Bitcoins.'
In a major administrative reshuffle, the government on Sunday ordered transfer of 20 IAS officers.'
The package was a part of Rs 1.7 lakh crore PMGKP package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect weaker and most vulnerable sections of the society from the impact of the lockdown due to Covid-19'
Concerns over public health, access to basic sanitation, resource depletion and extreme weather events are starting to impact our everyday conversations and planning.'
Sustainable materials such as agro-residues can be fractionated in bio-refineries and processed further to yield high-value products that can serve as an alternative to fossil-based and other environmentally detrimental raw materials in many industry sectors.'
Senior IPS officer ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo, who is holding the charge of women and child affairs, was given an additional charge of Internal Vigilance Cell, according to the order.'
A 1986 batch IAS officer, Mehta was presently the Home Secretary. Hailing from Rajasthan, he began his service as Kollam Assistant Collector in June 1987.'
As digital channels and devices proliferate, as tech-savvy consumers shift behavioral patterns and expectations of what \xe2\x80\x9cgood service\xe2\x80\x9d means, and as business models undergo digital transformation, businesses in the banking and financial services, and insurance (BFSI) sector are understandably working feverishly to stay ahead of the industry growth curve.'
Technological innovation is an important aspect in imagining the future of space, work and life as we know it. As the telephone gave way to mobile handsets and subsequently, the smartphones of today; it is acknowledged that technology has facilitated an exponential growth in every aspect of life.'
The command center is being used to monitor the movement of people and vehicles, including ambulances and disinfection services, and help maintain law and order in the twin cities. It is also equipped with a dashboard which provides the latest information on all known confirmed cases in the city'
These 69 projects, located in 55 of the 100 smart cities being developed, will cost an estimated Rs 2112.06 crore \xe2\x80\x94 about 1 percent of the total Mission investment of Rs 205,018 crore.'
Dell Technologies Global Data Protection Index 2020 Snapshot shines light on key challenges impacting data protection readiness'
b"Myrna Soto brings more than 25 years' experience in Information Technology and Security strategy and execution to help global enterprises optimize security as a business enabler in today's modern cloud era"
Hyderabad-based QuaQua is the world\xe2\x80\x99s first immersive travel platform that creates virtual reality (VR)-enabled content for the travel and tourism industry.'
L&amp;T Technology Services Limited, a global leading pure-play engineering services company, has joined the SRT Alliance and has been recognized as an SRT Ready partner providing customers with cutting-edge cloud-based video transport technology.'
In a recent bureaucratic decision slated out by the Government of West Bengal, IAS officer Shubhanjan Das is appointed as the Additional Secretary, Health Department of the state.'
Cyient, global engineering, and technology solutions company, announced that it has signed a Statement of Intent with the Emergent Alliance, to use their combined data knowledge to provide new insights and practical applications to the global COVID-19 response.'
Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting, and business process services company, today announced the appointment of Deepak M Satwalekar, widely respected financial services professional, to its Board of Directors for five years effective July 1, 2020, subject to the approval of the shareholders.'
Until recently, Thierry Delaporte was the Chief Operating Officer of Capgemini Group and a member of its Group Executive Board. During his twenty-five year career with Capgemini, he held several leadership roles including that of Chief Executive Officer of the Global Financial Services Strategic Business Unit, and head of all global service lines.'
L&amp;T Technology Services, a global pure-play engineering services company, announced that it served as a technology partner to Canada\xe2\x80\x99s CogniLore Information Solutions enabling it to offer its acclaimed proLibro digital delivery tools for mass adoption by educational institutes and businesses who now face the imminent task of realigning their operations and business model for a \xe2\x80\x9cwork from home\xe2\x80\x9d environment.'
VMware India today announced the signing of MoU with the WE HUB, a Government of Telangana initiative for women entrepreneurs, to extend VMinclusion Taara\xe2\x80\x99s upskilling and return to work program in the State.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tLucknow, Indore, Chandigarh, Kochi, Coimbatore, Jaipur & Ahmedabad likely to see reverse migration from off-rostered urban professionals\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNRIs looking to return to India amidst dwindling job prospects - particularly from US & Europe (nearly 70% global cases) \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCurrently, top 7 cities account for almost 70% residential market; remaining 30% in Tier 2 & 3 cities\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tSocial distancing norms to increase per capita office space allocations (reduced from 100-125 sq. ft. in the last decade to 75-100 sq. ft. pre-COVID-19)'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tIdeated by T-Hub, T-Tribe will benefit academic institutions, students and budding entrepreneurs. \n\xe2\x97\x8f\tT-Hub aims to train colleges with incubation or e-cells and provide them with mentorship as well as exposure to the domestic and global incubation and innovation ecosystem.'
EPAL ranked at the top among the 842 Indian-UK companies by a Grant Thornton & CII tracker'
The new normal has forced many businesses, organizations, and people to operate from home. With businesses operating indoor, this has increased the risk of security breaches and threats which can lead to loss of data, breaches of privacy or holding systems to ransom, and more. As swiftly as, India digitized its working business scenario online, businesses now need to take up \xe2\x80\x98online security\xe2\x80\x99 as a key self-responsibility.'
The response to the COVID-19 pandemic is stretching health care systems across the Asia Pacific region and around the world. The infrastructure and supply chains of health care providers are being challenged, and our health care front-liners work tirelessly to provide treatment and support in a time of unprecedented demand for patient care.'
The CoVid19 pandemic has brought corporate governance to the forefront of the commercial real estate space. At the very outset, Corporate governance can be challenging to execute as there are no concrete markers for excellence or adequate policy to ensure its widespread practice.'
Hackers and attacks are now evolving faster than ever before. A new breed of hackers acting in unison with APT groups appears'
Aeris will provide IoT technical consulting to Seattle-based Lab to support 5G-related app development.'
Such incessant growth is set to place intense pressure on our cities\xe2\x80\x99 existing infrastructural systems and resources, drive increased carbon emissions, and have an enormous impact on world climate. Buildings consume water and electricity and leave a significant carbon footprint \xe2\x80\x93 so do the acts of construction and extraction of construction materials.'
Internet of things (IoT) is becoming increasingly ubiquitous. It is permeating into almost every facet of our lives and changing the way we live, work, or even play.'
CUTS International along with its partners have been maintaining a \xe2\x80\x98Road Crash Tracker\xe2\x80\x99 to document road crash deaths and traffic violations during the lockdown since March 25 until now. Road crashes killed 1,51,417 people in 2018'
Utility Industry Executives Say Rising Severe Weather from Climate Change Threatens Grid Operations and Increases Need for Resilience, According to Accenture Research'
FY20 Revenue of \xe2\x82\xb95,619 crore, up 11%\nFY20 Net Profit of \xe2\x82\xb9819 crore, up 7%'
The 5th and last tranche of the INR 20 lakh crore economic package announced today can help smaller local developers to tide through the unprecedented coronavirus crisis to some extent, and give them some time to get their business on track. In this last tranche, the FM focussed on measures pertaining to MNREGA, businesses, and steps to improve the ease of doing business, among others.'
What is common to all the urban centers is their high density. Population density is determined by the number of residents who live within a given land area \xe2\x80\x93 usually a mile or kilometer. It is this high density that has contributed to the rise of these cities as economic hubs, cultural centers offering immense opportunities to diverse sets of people from everywhere, writes Author, Speaker and Urban Sociologist, Dr. Binti Singh.'
With the aim to the collection of highly infected covid19 waste from quarantine houses and its proper disposal in a scientific manner, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has made a mechanism to collect household waste from door to door of quarantine home in which covid19 related person or patients are residing in the area of its jurisdiction.'
Provides doctors with virtual consultation numbers to connect easily with patients.'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe are in a time of great global transformation \xe2\x80\x93 economically, socially and environmentally. For businesses to thrive in today\xe2\x80\x99s fast-paced, uncertain and changing world they too have to transform. At Lenovo Data Centre Group, the intelligent transformation has always been part of our story, from powering work that is designed to solve some of humanity\xe2\x80\x99s biggest challenges to helping businesses on their journeys of transformation\xe2\x80\x9d, asserts Vivek Sharma, Managing Director Lenovo Data Centre Group, India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty, BW SmartCities.  Excerpts below:'
Most banks have been on various stages of their digital transformation journey, which in most cases was limited to a customer facing digital layer. The new challenges upon financial institutions has accentuated the need for a more holistic approach. Digitization will start with evolving the customer experience\xe2\x80\x94creating more cohesive and personal digital journeys by combining and integrating every aspect into a single platform and tooling. Moving beyond the customer interface, digitization includes middle- and back-office operations, and support functions where processes are transformed and automated into intelligent workflows. Asserts Prativa Mohapatra, Vice President Sales, IBM, India and South Asia in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty BW SmartCities. Excerpts:'
Pushes for the integration of SEZ Online with Customs ICEGATE system\n \n ~Incentivize Foreign Supply Chains to relocate into SEZs'
The second tranche of the government\xe2\x80\x99s INR 20 lakh crore economic package was unleashed for the benefit of migrant workers, traders, farmers and street vendors \xe2\x80\x93 and there was a real estate takeaway. In a big move, the government has announced the one-year extension of the CLSS scheme up to March 2021. This will help push demand for affordable housing.'
Intel Launches First Global Challenges, Marks a New Era of Shared Corporate Responsibility'
Technology partners such as HPE, SGL and Webline were remotely engaged by DSCL and the District Administration through video and teleconferencing ensuring they play a key role in implementation and execution.'
b"Yesterday's announcement is much in line with the government\xe2\x80\x99s aim to spur economic growth and build a \xe2\x80\x98self-reliant\xe2\x80\x99 India. In the first of the series of announcements the FM will make over the next few days, the real estate sector, NBFCS/HFCs and MSMEs got a major boost on day one."
With 4x customer growth over the last 18 months, the new capital will be used to enhance engineering capabilities to fuel technology innovation and grow sales'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe 2020 edition of the Global Startup Ecosystem Report (GSER) by Startup Genome will include Hyderabad as an emerging tech hub.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWith this recognition, T-Hub aims to leverage its leadership in the space of building an innovation ecosystem and supporting other ecosystems globally.'
Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, today announced that it has been cited as a \xe2\x80\x98Leader\xe2\x80\x99 in IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Cloud Professional Services 2020 Vendor Assessment.'
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the broader U.S. Government released a list today of the top 10 vulnerabilities most commonly exploited by foreign cyber actors. Exploitation of these vulnerabilities often requires fewer resources compared to zero-day exploits for which no patches are available.'
Grundfos India, a global leader in advanced pump solutions and a trendsetter in water technology, today announced that its India facility in Chennai, comprising of both its country headquarters and the factory building, has been accredited with LEED Platinum Certification by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC).'
Enterprise SONiC Distribution by Dell Technologies is the first commercial version to provide enterprise-ready features and global support for large-scale environments'
Qatar Airways to Give Away 100,000 Complimentary Tickets to Frontline Healthcare Professionals\nAs the foremost airline taking people home, Qatar Airways will now support healthcare workers to take a well-deserved break\nGiveaway will open on International Nurses Day 2020 to say a massive thank you to these heroes. Complimentary Economy Class return tickets on Qatar Airways operated flights will be fully flexible for destinations and dates'
From May 15, 2020, all home deliveries will have to be paid digitally and no cash on delivery will be accepted.'
Intel Labs and the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania (Penn Medicine) are co-developing technology to enable a federation of 29 international healthcare and research institutions led by Penn Medicine to train artificial intelligence (AI) models that identify brain tumors using a privacy-preserving technique called federated learning.'
Leveraging Robotic Process Automation for Healthcare Services, combined with Design Thinking Innovation is the need of the hour.'
With the emergence of COVID 19, the country and almost the entire world have been faced with the most unprecedented times. Several countries are under a lockdown to contain the spread of this virus and India has also gone into a 21-day lockdown period. These measures are extremely important for the health and well-being of our communities but a direct hit of this can be seen across the small and medium businesses who have to either work remotely or completely shut operations given the circumstances.'
To ensure the business continuity, sector seeks for loan packages for immediate operability post lockdown; bring sales velocity to the unsold inventory by leveraging digital channels and creating new projects which score high on health and wellness.'
In a major administrative reshuffle amid the lockdown, the Madhya Pradesh government has transferred 50 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, including some additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, and a former chief secretary.'
The government issued a GO transferring of 16 IAS officers and posting them in different positions with immediate effect from Monday.'
The dashboard will bring together solutions from multiple technology leaders and deliver more than 100 dashboards, across 30 plus government and public datasets, with hundreds of thousands of data points.'
Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) on Thursday announced it has completed the deployment of four Covid-19 Test Labs and four Outpatient Department (OPD) Centers across the country to assist the Centre and state governments in their efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.'
The employee commute platform also introduces six new Covid-proof safety features'
Aeris Communications, a preferred Internet of Things (IoT) technology partner for enterprises, today announced the launch of the Smart Fleet Platform. This is the industry\xe2\x80\x99s first end-to-end connected platform and telematics solution for the fleet owners.'
The ongoing global pandemic caused by the novel Coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) would adversely impact the ongoing efforts towards achieving many of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe programme will kick off with partners on board, the incubated start-ups will avail of a gamut of services and training programmes to provide management, administrative, legal, marketing and technical support.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe second cohort of the programme will have a significant virtual incubation component due to the ongoing scenario.'
Cross-industry Coalition Advances Digital Trust Standards'
Tripura gets its first mobile kiosk to collect COVID-19 sample that can navigate through narrow lanes and by-lanes of the city, facilitates mass testing in less time'
The Integrated Command and Control Centres(ICCC) in around 50 cities have been helping the administration cater to the needs of healthcare and logistics.'
The relevance & utility of SmartMeters has long been apparent. The current situation has only served to reinforce their efficacy, by completely eliminating manual interventions. Smart Metering is poised to be the launchpad for a comprehensive reform of the power sector. Writes Saurabh Kumar, Managing Director, EESL.'
\xe2\x96\xba\tA leading 64% of organizations in India and Europe invested in cloud technologies in the last two years, followed by Internet of Things (IoT), where 51% respondents made investments \n\xe2\x96\xba\tArtificial intelligence is likely to account for the largest share of investment over the next two years by organizations in India and Europe\n\xe2\x96\xba\tIn two years\xe2\x80\x99 time, 82% of organizations in India and Europe will be making good progress in their digital transformations or will have fully embedded it across the business'
Supplies over 15 lakh litres of disinfectant to state of Gujarat & Maharashtra~\n~ SHGs produce over 1 lakh face masks~\n~Produces 60,000 litres of hand sanitizer per day for distribution~\n~Augments capacity of Mithapur Hospital~'
Global Coalition of Energy, Industry and Finance Leaders Calls for Economic Stimulus to be Invested in the Economy of the Future'
Atif brings more than 19 years of experience in the IT Service industry, with proven expertise in leading sales initiatives and partnerships. With previous experience in third party maintenance and across system integrators, Atif has been hired to manage Park Place\xe2\x80\x99s expansion in India, emphasizing the potential for growth in supporting complex data centre environments.'
Wipro Limited, a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company, has signed a memorandum of understanding with the Government of Maharashtra under which it will repurpose one of its information technology campuses in Hinjewadi, Pune to a 450-bed intermediary care COVID-19 hospital in four weeks and hand it over to the state government by May 30.'
Until the Supreme Court struck it down, Aadhaar-based e-KYC (Know Your Customer) was a great enabler that helped last-mile financial service providers, like NBFCs and payment operators, to expand financial inclusion at a fraction of the customer acquisition cost (\xe2\x80\x9cCAC\xe2\x80\x9d) that a normal KYC process would otherwise entail.'
With the rapid outbreak of COVID-19, industries and companies across sectors have faced a major hit. The lockdown crisis brought a lot of sudden and unprecedented changes in the way we do business. If rightly said it\xe2\x80\x99s a make-or-break period for Indian Small and Medium Businesses (SMBs).'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tWork.com includes new solutions, ranging from contact tracing and emergency response management to employee wellness assessment and shift management, for accelerating private and public sector response to the COVID-19 pandemic\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWork.com Command Center is a single hub for leaders to get a 360-degree view of return-to-work readiness across locations, employees and visitors, and make data-driven decisions\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWork.com leverages guidance from and solutions built by Salesforce\xe2\x80\x99s trusted ecosystem of partners, including Accenture, Deloitte, PwC and more, to help businesses and communities reopen'
Companies Can Now Set Up Call Centers with CloudAgent Mobile App'
Smart city projects worth approx Rs 1 lakh crore have been stopped due to the lockdown, rendering tens of thousands of workers jobless and causing large-scale damage of building materials, which could significantly escalate project costs.'
On April 30, F-Secure Labs published an advisory for two vulnerabilities (CVE-2020-11651 and CVE-2020-11652), in the open-source and commercial Salt management framework, which is used in data centers and cloud environments as a configuration, monitoring, and update tool.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tOwned homes regain millennial mojo ~ 55% property seekers aged 25-35 yrs (against 42% in H2 2019 survey)\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tOver 62% home seekers will pay premium for homes by established developers with least execution risk (52% in previous survey)\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNo impact of COVID-19 on affordable homes demand; 36% seek properties priced within INR 45 lakh (almost the same as in previous survey)\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t82% buyers have booked homes in either Bengaluru, Hyderabad or MMR'
Google Pay India on Thursday named Shikha Sharma, former Axis Bank CEO, as an advisor to digital payments app.'
\xe2\x80\x98Supports State governments and communities\xe2\x80\x99 by providing Hand sanitizers, PPE kits, food packets and face masks\xe2\x80\x99'
Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport, Highways and MSME during an interaction with real estate body NAREDCO, via a video conference stated that, the government is looking if NHAI can plan a township along the highway (Delhi-Mumbai Expressway) .'
This unprecedented crisis will have a massive impact on most economies. Countries will need to re-prioritize public expenditure towards humanitarian aid, social & health sectors, and to cater to those immediately affected by the Coronavirus. The challenge for an economy like India is to still - and somehow - manage to keep investment levels in infrastructure up.'
New backup and recovery solution integrates with Azure functionality to help organizations move more applications and data to Azure; eliminates cloud data loss while maintaining control over costs and security'
The lockdown scenarios have forced organizations to move out of their workplaces and take work to their respective homes. This sudden adoption of Work from Home (WFH) at a wider scale has led to a spike in data network traffic.'
Joint Solution to Streamline Database Delivery and Management, Freeing IT Teams to Innovate'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tMantra Capital makes its first strategic investment and it will continue to re-envision venture capital with such investments in tech startups that elevate the way people eat, live and thrive\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tSARVA has an online customer base in over 25 countries and is encouraging people to prioritize health and fitness through live sessions at home.'
The deal is expected to enhance the customer experience specific to 4G network.'
As the Coronavirus continues to wreak havoc across the globe, cities around the world are starting to leverage technology to help support essential services providers, emergency responders, and local law enforcement in their fight against the virus.  In an effort to contribute to the fight, SenRa, a PAN India LoRaWAN\xc2\xae network provider has announced free LoRaWAN Network until the end of 2020 for their customers in India who are working on deploying IoT solutions which will assist in the fight against COVID-19.'
\xe2\x80\x9d. A key message that reverberated across the sessions and events of the WUF 10 was the need for an inclusive and people-centric approach to sustainable urban development through strengthening of local coping capacities and mainstreaming resilience in urban policy frameworks. However, due to the onset of the current COVID-19 pandemic, there were fewer participants/delegates at the forum than previous years, along with a few empty exhibits and canceled sessions because of travel advisories and restrictions.'
More than 100 organizations/individuals have so far registered to use the BFI tool'
Varanasi Smart City has engaged \xe2\x80\x98Garuda Aerospace Private Limited, a Chennai Based company for spraying of sanitizer in the selected areas of Varanasi City under Smart Cities Mission.'
The sudden attack of COVID-19 has resulted in a continuous national lockdown causing a potential slowdown in the economy of the country. Economists assume that if the situation does not normalize soon, disruptions might last longer, which is a scary situation. More than 40% of household consumption is related to services which are under lockdown and mobility restrictions.'
Bikanervala adopts Dell EMC VxRail to increase business efficiency and scalability'
Amid Covid19 pandemic and businesses working from home, Endpoint Protector by CoSoSys strengths its \xe2\x80\x98Channel Partner Program\xe2\x80\x99 to bridge connect and establish understanding on why the Data Loss Prevention Solutions are business-relevant and should be in priority.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tNCR is next with 15,600 unsold ready units, followed by Bengaluru with nearly 10,100 apartments\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tHyderabad has least unsold ready stock of approx. 2,400 homes worth INR 1,870 crore\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tA total of 6.44 lakh units were unsold in top 7 cities as on March 2020 end\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFirst-time homebuyers currently well-placed to negotiate good deals; home loan interest rates also at an all-time low of between 7.15-7.8%'
Commercial real estate has been a reliable mainstay of the Indian real estate sector, remaining vibrant even while residential property remained in the doldrums. Now, the coronavirus has thrown a serious spanner into the works of this lucrative real estate segment, at least for next two quarters.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tLed by Aden Group to establish a consortium of companies to build hospital within 100 days that is easily operated in countries needing it most\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFull adoption of virtual twin experience to develop new hospital from engineering, construction and procurement to operations and maintenance\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tVirtual collaborative platform supports infrastructure and cities innovators taking new approaches to building that increase agility and maximize project outcomes\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t3DEXPERIENCE integration collaboration with all disciplines throughout full lifecycle'
Accenture, Intel and the Sulubaa\xc3\xaf Environmental Foundation announced Project: CORaiL, an artificial intelligence (AI)-powered solution to monitor, characterize and analyze coral reef resiliency.'
NRIs may be steadfast patrons of property investments in India, but the current COVID-19 crisis has toppled economies and personal finances worldwide and NRIs are not immune. Many NRIs settled in Europe, America and the Middle East who have bought real estate in India are considering refinancing their home loans. Job insecurity or not, this is an apt time for NRIs to rectify some ongoing equations and look at increased savings wherever possible.'
As companies around the world scramble to roll out remote work strategies in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, some organizations are better prepared for it than others. The tech sector, in particular, has long embraced remote work and actively promoted flexible working arrangements, but few have made strategies that included the possibility of their entire workforce having to work from home at the same time.'
In a recent move by the Cloud Data Service major, NetApp has appointed Puneet Gupta as its VP, India and SAARC.'
Indium Software, a global digital technology services company, has announced its strategic partnership with Mendix, a low-code software platform that provides tools to build, test, deploy and iterate applications in real-time.'
JK Technosoft enables Impel Pro SCM Solutions with the implementation of Microsoft Dynamics NAV across 7+ locations through the web. \n \nJK Technosoft becomes the first IT software services provider to go-live while working-from-home during the lockdown'
Videonetics launches the world\xe2\x80\x99s first video analytics-based Pandemic Management Suite \xe2\x80\x98SAJAG\xe2\x80\x99 powered by its AI & DL framework, commits to empower COVID-19 warriors and crusaders by delivering actionable intelligence with in-depth insights to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus.'
Largest FDI for a minority investment in India\nPartnership to create opportunities for people and businesses'
In a bid to provide employment to the stranded migrant workers in the State of Uttar Pradesh, the State Government decided to constitute a committee to provide employment to as many as 5 lakh stranded workers who are stuck in the state from the past 45 days due to the lockdown implemented to prevent the COVID-19 outbreak.'
Covid-19 has presented unprecedented challenges and opportunities to the entire world. A new normal has emerged with the prolonged suspension of our everyday activities in all walks of life that is reshaping everything\xe2\x80\x94work, school, consumption, entertainment, and more.'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tWE HUB, a State-run platform for Women Entrepreneurs, is enabling start-ups survive by 1:1 guidance to re-strategize their business plan, financial modeling, gain market access and acquire new customers.\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tIt is also helping startups to receive funding through Credit Guarantee Funds Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE).'
Data volumes are exploding. The Internet of Things (IoT) is ramping up machine-generated data at the same time consumer-driven transaction, media, and other information continues to grow. As data lakes become data oceans, what will it take for India\xe2\x80\x99s data center industry to catalogue, store, and analyze the vast quantities of information the nation\xe2\x80\x99s organizations and individuals are collecting?'
Intel and Udacity announced the new Intel\xc2\xae Edge AI for IoT Developers Nanodegree Program to train the developer community in deep learning and computer vision, which will accelerate the development and deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) models at the edge by leveraging the Intel\xc2\xae Distribution of OpenVINO\xe2\x84\xa2 toolkit.'
Supplies IgG/IgM antibody rapid test kits to Govt. of India and AIIMS'
Kanpur has been working round the clock to avail essential services to all the sections of the community across the city while strategizing as per the community .'
Covid-19 has presented unprecedented challenges and opportunities to the entire world. A new normal has emerged with the prolonged suspension of our everyday activities in all walks of life that is reshaping everything\xe2\x80\x94work, school, consumption, entertainment, and more. Organizations find their regular approaches suddenly inadequate and they are scrambling to undergo a large-scale, if not complete, pivot to digital models to stay relevant and viable in a time of crisis.'
When we think of number one services to go remote and make our work stride along, we mention such instruments as remote access software, VoIP, time tracking applications, cloud solutions, hardware and video conferencing equipment, security solutions for personal devices, VPN and many more.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tBlueSemi, Byteforce, Blocksapp.ai, cogni.Care, Dimension NXG, Exprs, Master PCB, Marut Drones and Tericsoft are using technology to help fight the spread of this deadly virus.'
HubSpot\xe2\x80\x99s CMS Hub includes Enterprise and Professional tiers and is designed to help growing Indian businesses overcome the painful experience of managing websites at scale.'
the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has requested the Ministry of Home Affairs to allow more digital kiosks to function in rural areas. The digital kiosks can be of great help in disbursing essential services such as withdrawals of government subsidies sent directly to Aadhar-linked bank accounts under various Central Government schemes.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tHomebuying going increasingly digital, top developers leverage digital sales tools to beat Covid-19 blues\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tOf total 3,000 homes sold by Godrej Properties in FY Q4 2020, at least 17% were sold in second half of March alone\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAmidst stock market volatility & recent-past financial sector turmoil, physical asset becoming increasingly relevant \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFor NRIs, Indian real estate now even more appealing due to depreciating rupee value'
Oncologists at India\xe2\x80\x99s largest cancer care provider consult patients using Teams Virtual Consult'
The Coronavirus pandemic has highlighted critical gaps in manufacturing capacities. Insufficient supply chain agility, over-dependence on human effort, and the inability to respond to demand spikes are among the common challenges plaguing the sector during this time \xe2\x80\x93 and beyond. Automation could prove to be an effective solution, helping manufacturers reestablish business continuity on the road ahead.'
P&amp;G has already started manufacturing hand sanitizers and will soon begin production of face masks'
In a major move to kickstart at least some pent-up economic activity, the government today released the guidelines to be followed during lockdown 2.0. Offering some relief to the construction sector, the government has permitted activity to resume in non-Covid-19 hotspots, provided they follow strict social distancing guidelines. However, the guideline clearly mentions that no construction worker will be brought from outside and only those currently available on the site will be able to resume work.'
New payment program allows customers and partners to \n \no\tAccess technology to support business continuity \no\tInvest for recovery, deferring 95 percent of the cost until January 2021 \no\tProtect their business with cash preservation and minimized cash outlay'
In the light of these developments, the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) has announced an Innovation Challenge for Development of a Video Conferencing Solution under the Digital India Initiative.'
b"The Prime Minister underlined that the motto of the government earlier was 'jaan hai to jahaan hai' but now it is 'jaan bhi jahaan bhi'."
This phenomenon has attracted attention from all corners of the world from giant corporates to governments and renowned institutions. Many initiatives around the world are working towards finding a solution to energy issues.'
Digital learning provides many advantages, apart from convenience and reach. It helps learners transcend the barriers of time, distance and location; it also expands the size of the classroom infinitely.'
The impact of the current crisis is still not known as the situation remains volatile. With the larger workforce working from home, we are expecting to see an uptake on cloud services, cybersecurity, and data security. The current circumstances may also accelerate the adoption of 5G to meet the demands of bandwidth, performance, and network slicing,'
No matter what kind of business one may run, you might find yourself wasting more energy as each month goes by. But how can one reduce their carbon footprint while trying to keep up with the daily needs of the business?'
There\xe2\x80\x99s no shortage of articles and blog posts discussing the near-term implications of our current situation. Cloud services and applications fill the void to help ensure employee productivity and business continuity. But what are the long-term business implications of a fully remote workforce as it relates to cybersecurity?'
The solution can be deployed quickly and provides scalable, highly-secure access to organizations of any size, regardless of user location, while as-a-Service capability provides agility, cost-effectiveness, and convenience'
As part of its initiatives to answer urgent needs in the COVID-19 pandemic, Dassault Syst\xc3\xa8mes\xe2\x80\x99 3DEXPERIENCE Lab supported the Indian startup Inali in the rapid development of a safe, affordable \xe2\x80\x9csmart ventilator\xe2\x80\x9d that could be quickly manufactured and deployed for emergency use'
It might not be the installation of lighting products in a dark-lit alleyway, rather the functional installation of illuminating products in the infrastructure which can help in the improvement of the aesthetic and functional experience of the entire space for users. To clarify, the simplest way of understanding architectural lighting is identifying that it is a combination of technology, and attention to design detail \xe2\x80\x94 which facilitates the improvement of functionality and aesthetics in a space.'
iGOT , an e-learning platform will enable providing training to around 1.50 crore workers and volunteers, working in the Medical domain'
In a bid, to provide a one-stop arrangement for citizen grievances management making use of information technology optimally, as part of switching over to digitalization to cut down red tape and ensure faster delivery of civic services, the city ULB in Nagpur came up with such an app.'
SenRa is announcing the release of it\xe2\x80\x99s new Ginjer\xe2\x84\xa2 2.0 IoT analytics platform which will help users to easily and securely manage IoT data and devices at scale. The new Ginjer 2.0 is redefining what\xe2\x80\x99s possible for businesses by accelerating business decision making with powerful reporting tools, real-time data visualization, device management capabilities and user access management features in shorter amount of time at low-cost.'
STL, an industry-leading integrator of data networks, announced it now has a global patent portfolio of 358 to its credit, including 93 patent applications filed in FY20 for its optical connectivity, network services, and virtual mobile edge solutions. The company filed these patents globally - India, the US, Europe, and China.'
The \xe2\x80\x98Certified Cyber Warriors v3.0\xe2\x80\x99 course has been designed as a 120-hour course that includes live online classes conducted over the weekends.'
In a bid to generate social awareness about COVID 19 among citizens amidst the Coronavirus pandemic by spreading awareness, the Government of Telangana has partnered with WhatsApp to build a dedicated Chatbot for the citizens. The people can chat with the bot to receive accurate information on the COVID19 pandemic.'
In a bid to tackle the Coronavirus outbreak, the Government of Uttar Pradesh has taken a landmark step by inaugurating the integrated disaster management COVID19 control room in Lucknow on April 6.'
Great Place to Work Institute has certified ESDS Software Solutions as Asia\xe2\x80\x99s 15th Best Workplace of 2020 under its \xe2\x80\x98Best Workplaces in Asia\xe2\x80\x99 category. This is an ideal recognition for ESDS because of their consistency and dedication towards creating a better working environment for their employees. Across 8 Asian countries, more than 2 Million employees participated in the institute\xe2\x80\x99s survey.'
Why security and trust must be built-in throughout the entire lifecycle of technology deployment?'
In a bid to stay updated with the technological advancement in social media, e-commerce, cybercrime, digital payments and more, it has resorted to taking opinions from various departments and industry to revise the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000.'
The Government-backed NPCI, along with banks and ecosystem partners, has been running a campaign over the past few days on social media platforms asking people to make contactless payments and more importantly make UPI (unified payment interface) payments even as India gears for a 21-days of lockdown.'
The campaign is in partnership with Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Department of Science and Technology, and National Research and Education Network.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe Strategic investor is a World-Wide Industrial Conglomerate with strong EPC capabilities\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTransfer of full ownership of Senvion India.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAll assets like factory, personnel, installed base and current ongoing project.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFull knowhow and I/P relevant for the India market; Supports Make In India Strategy.'
Furthers GoDaddy\xe2\x80\x99s Commitment to Investing in the Infrastructure of the Internet to Deliver Great Customer Experiences Punctuated by Speed, Security and Reliability'
In order to ensure the successful implementation of the lockdown due to COVID19 outbreak, Agra Administration in association with Agra Smart City & Agra Police developed Agra Lockdown Monitor App on March 3.'
The fund will be used to help India to prevent, detect, and respond to the COVID-19 outbreak and strengthen its public health preparedness. The financial assistance is the largest ever health sector support from the World Bank to India.'
The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is carrying out door-to-door verification in 10 lakh buildings to identify any person infected with COVID19. Around 16,000 workers are deployed to carry out the task that started on March 5.'
Array gained a market share of 28.2 % in Q4 2019 from 22.6% during the same quarter last year, as per the India Application Delivery Controller Market Report: Q4 2019 by International Data Corporation (IDC) which was released this week.'
-          Free access to the Platform will continue until June 2020.\n-          Adds Master Classes for Indian managers on dealing with uncertain times.'
Through UiPath Academy, the RPA leader is giving the global workforce enhanced online learning tools to skill up now for the growing need of automation skills'
In June 2015, the \xe2\x80\x98100 Smart Cities Mission\xe2\x80\x99 was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earmarking \xe2\x82\xb998,000 crore for the development of 100 smart cities in India and the rejuvenation of 500 others . However, as the number of people migrating to cities from rural in search of economic prosperity and higher standards of living grows rapidly, there is an increased imbalance in the pattern of resource consumption.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tCisco Designed portfolio to deliver end-to-end products for small businesses\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEnabling frictionless and enhanced customer experience to drive awareness, demand, and adoption across all geographies'
The masterclasses are aimed at promoting high-quality content creation practices'
The Smart Cities Mission is an innovative initiative by the Government of India to drive economic growth and improve the quality of life of people. It aims to achieve this by enabling local development and harnessing technology as a means to create smart outcomes for citizens. A hundred cities across the country were shortlisted by the government, which were to be promoted as \xe2\x80\x98Smart Cities\xe2\x80\x99.'
Mamata Banerjee, Chief Minister of West Bengal, recently announced that the Government of West Bengal will set up a nodal coronavirus hospital in all the 22 districts of the state.'
In a bureaucratic reshuffle in West Bengal, the Mamta Banerjee-led TMC government has shifted 16 West Bengal Civil Service officers with immediate effect.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tHousing sales to see 25-35% y-o-y fall in 2020; new launches by 25-30%\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tUnsold housing inventory to remain stable, may even see 1-3% yearly reduction \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tConstruction delays could run into several months for well-funded projects, few years for others; 4.66 lakh units to be previously completed by 2020-end face high risk of delays\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAffordable housing target group most affected, limited income & unemployment fears to defer purchase decisions\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIndian office sector to see significant impact by COVID-19; besides demand-supply decline, key occupiers to re-look office space requirements'
In an attempt to aid the migrant workers facing trouble amidst the lockdowns implemented due to the spread of COVID-19, a 24\xc3\x977 operational control room has been opened at the Alappuzha district collectorate.'
With the global spread of the COVID-19, business leaders are encountering a common problem: How best to deploy, enable, and engage a remote workforce? Shares Alexander Varghese'
As per a press note released on Tuesday by the SWR,  the coaches will be turned into the wards as per the prototype approved by the Railway Board. The move is expected to benefit 2,400 people.'
In accordance with data compiled by Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation, the city waste metrics have slid down drastically from 5000 tonnes to under 3700 tonnes,'
Wipro Ltd, Wipro Enterprises Ltd, and Azim Premji Foundation have together committed Rs 1125 crore towards tackling the unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis arising from the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak.'
As an aid to these workers who are devoid of work, money, and shelter, the Chief Minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday, March 31, that the Delhi government is preparing to arrange facilities to feed 10 to 12 lakh people a day from April 1, today. For this, the government has been putting efforts to arrange 3,000 centers, each with a capacity of feeding 500 people per day.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tResidential sales stood at 45,200 units in Q1 2020 against 78,510 units in Q1 2019 across top 7 cities; quarterly drop of 24%\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNearly 41,200 new units launched in Q1 2020 against 70,480 units in Q1 2019; min. 21% q-o-q drop in new supply\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tHyderabad sees highest yearly drop of 50% in residential sales \xe2\x80\x93 from 5,400 units in Q1 2019 to approx. 2,680 units in Q1 2020; other cities witness similar declining trends\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tFor new launches, MMR & Pune record maximum y-o-y drop of 61% & 56% respectively; Chennai & Kolkata\xe2\x80\x99s new launches increase by 16% & 8% respectively\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDespite the gloom, developers able to shed their unsold inventory by 3% y-o-y - from 6.65 lakh units in Q1 2019 to 6.44 lakh units in Q1 2020'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tCombating COVID-19 with technology to resume social and economic operations\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tSIMULIA XFlow simulation software being used at China\xe2\x80\x99s biggest modular hospital, built in 14 days to combat COVID-19\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t3D cloud-based collaborative platform approach replaces an older, slower document-based approach'
Integrated Command and Control Centers of Smart City mission converted to track and monitor COVID 19 positives using GIS and track healthcare workers using GPS to fight the ongoing pandemic.'
With global warming on the rise, the average temperature is no longer your usual. As we move in to the midst of the summer season, this temperature is just going to increase and get hotter by the day hence enabling people to look for various ways to cool themselves off.'
This partnership will enable a streamlined, efficient, accurate and integrated plan administration solution to support healthcare payers and plan sponsors worldwide.'
The win underscores the strength of the unique combination of Syncordis\xe2\x80\x99 Temenos expertise along with LTI\xe2\x80\x99s global system integration capabilities.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe COVID-19 Innovation program has been designed for students who are budding entrepreneurs who can come up with innovative and feasible solutions to combat the deadly virus.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTwo winning student teams will receive direct mentoring and support from all the stakeholders to transform their ideas into viable business propositions.'
With the COVID-19 virus now officially declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization, companies around the world have encouraged their employees to work from home to protect their health and support government measures aimed to curb the spread of the virus. However, while many organizations have long been exploring the possibilities offered by remote work, few have allowed all their employees to work from home at the same time for extended periods of time.'
In today\xe2\x80\x99s hyperconnected and tech-led world, we are heavily reliant on digital channels to communicate and transact. Against the backdrop of the complete lockdown of countries due to COVID-19, technology has emerged the winner \xe2\x80\x93 as it ensures communities and societies are still able to function.'
Business Unit will leverage Microsoft\xe2\x80\x99s technologies to meet customers\xe2\x80\x99 cloud needs'
Park Place Technologies, a global leader in data center management, is announcing PPTechMobile, a mobile application that will give customers real-time access to maintenance events in their data center and IT infrastructure. This is the first and only mobile application of its kind in the third-party maintenance category.'
b"Smart cities aren't lofty daydreams drawn in blueprints. They are the amalgamation and integration of the highest possible technologies that the industry can provide for a highly connected and technology-friendly urban infrastructure. It's not a surprise after all, with Frost & Sullivan market report stating that the smart city industry is going to be worth $1.56 trillion by 2025."
People\xe2\x80\x99s expectations of retirement living are changing. The current generation of senior citizens has more tailored and sophisticated desires. They are looking for a home that will accommodate their lifestyle in the future and also seek aesthetically pleasing communities with picturesque landscaping. They aspire better healthcare facilities and in essence, a hassle-free life to make up for all their bustling years.'
Addressing these challenges, STL, a global data networks innovator, formed Project Savdhaan. It is a special initiative to intensify COVID-19 awareness in India through an online workshop and on-ground sessions in specific locations.'
UiPath is collaborating with leading smart city solution providers to accelerate operational outcomes by leveraging software bots. \xe2\x80\x9cThe ICCC (Integrated Control and Command Centre) teams are discovering RPA relevance to assist them in operating and navigating various Smart City applications such as video surveillance, intelligent traffic management systems, vehicle tracking systems, environmental monitoring applications, building management systems and so on\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Manish Bharti, President UiPath India and SAARC.'
Cybersecurity without IT Overload, Comprehensive protection'
The emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic has driven many essential workers, especially those in healthcare, to take unprecedented steps to protect public health. These amazing efforts have strained the resources and supplies these #HealthcareHeroes need to treat affected individuals. As we\xe2\x80\x99ve seen in countries around the world fighting the disease, it is critically important that hospitals have an abundant supply of personal protection equipment (PPE) to ensure doctors, nurses, and other healthcare staff can safely continue to work without risk to their health.'
Videonetics, World\xe2\x80\x99s first AI & DL powered Unified Video Computing Platform\xe2\x84\xa2 development company, announced that its Intelligent VMS is now ONVIF Profile \xe2\x80\x98T\xe2\x80\x99 Compliant, that supports video streaming features such as the use of H.264 and H.265 encoding formats, imaging settings, and alarm events such as motion and tampering detection.'
Successfully completed the migration of 479 branches and 8 regional offices of Kaveri Grameena Bank as part of merger'
LTTS & IIT-K will jointly set up CoE dedicated to cybersecurity'
b"Smart cities aren't lofty daydreams drawn in blueprints. They are the amalgamation and integration of the highest possible technologies that the industry can provide for a highly connected and technology-friendly urban infrastructure. It's not a surprise after all, with Frost & Sullivan market report stating that the smart city industry is going to be worth $1.56 trillion by 2025."
Whilst we are well aware of the teaching methodology, there exists a discernible lack of knowledge on the merits of the mentorship model of learning.  Mentoring and teaching, two such vastly varying concepts, beg a detailed differentiation so that learners may be equipped to decide what is ideal to their own learning objectives. It should be noted that mentorship is not a new model of knowledge sharing, it has always been around in the form of personal coaches, be it in India or the western world.'
-\tOver 40,000 students from Telangana attended the 2 days live workshop, F-Tech 2.0'
The intent of this engagement is to co-develop new solutions, which will help retail and fashion companies effectively manage business processes and customer experience.'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tWE HUB will announce the new incubation cohort in March 2020; the call for applications is open now and will close on 16th March 2020.\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tThe leading giants from various sectors will be closely working with WE HUB to provide various suites of benefits for the second cohort.\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tWE HUB will provide the start-ups with access to technical advice, product development, investor connects and market access through these partnerships.'
Targeted for Restaurants where payments happen at the table'
Facebook Connectivity\xe2\x80\x99s Terragraph solution enables Cambium Networks to provide last mile access to subscriber homes, enterprises and multi-dwelling buildings'
According to an Oracle sponsored study by ESI ThoughtLab \xe2\x80\x93 these new Hyperconnected Cities aim to create new business opportunities, increase the efficiency of government processes, and improve public safety and health. The reports maintain all these benefits will be accompanied with noticeable return on investment, which will increase with increasing connectivity.'
Best Power Equipments (India) Private Limited (BPE), India\xe2\x80\x99s leading power manufacturing brand announced that it has achieved a sales growth of 12% in Modular UPS & Data Cube series. Catering to healthcare industry, IT, ITES, Government, Banking sector; there are different aspects of the usage of power & these sectors face the challenge on the issue of the quality of the power and the issue of the continuity of power.'
The ACREX Hall of Fame is a joint initiative by Danfoss and ISHRAE that seeks to recognize benchmark Commercial Building projects in India'
b"\xe2\x80\xa2\tKerala currently has over 2,200 operational start-ups - 36% in Kochi alone\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tUSD 44 mn funding spread across 13 deals pumped into the state in first 9 months of 2019 - up by 18% over 2018 \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tLower operation costs, skilled manpower, modern technology & supportive Govt. policies driving start-ups' growth\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tKerala one of the top 5 states for start-ups, with Gujarat, Karnataka, Odisha & Rajasthan\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNearly 59% of Kerala\xe2\x80\x99s start-ups headquartered in Ernakulam & Thiruvananthapuram districts"
\xe2\x80\xa2\tCompanies continue multi-year relationship to bolster Airtel\xe2\x80\x99s 5G vision\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tNew network integrates Cisco IP and optical solutions along with segment routing to improve overall network availability and extend services in rural communities\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAirtel\xe2\x80\x99s network already demonstrating significant speeds with scale to enable new, advanced B2B and B2C services'
As organisations are increasingly moving to software based infrastructures to meet the storage and processing requirements of their data and mission-critical workloads, Dell Technologies lists down five areas that CIOs must not overlook while choosing the right hardware for HCI deployment:'
STL, a global data network innovator, announced today that it has been awarded a \xe2\x80\x98Zero Waste to Landfill\xe2\x80\x99 Certification by Intertek (US), a leading Total Quality Assurance provider to industries worldwide.'
Companies aim to benefit a million people by democratizing access to impactful technology'
Only 12.1% of the organizations globally, 17% in Asia Pacific and 24% in India say customers rate brand experiences as fully satisfactory, with satisfaction around AI and robotics experiences faring even worse'
In the enterprise, for instance, the AI solutions like Process Intelligence (IQ) have witnessed a huge adoption rate and have significantly transformed how processes are monitored and managed across an organization. As AI continues to scale in 2020, it will continue to have a significant impact on our lives, both in the workplace and outside of it.'
The expanded business to provide scalable, effective solutions for today\xe2\x80\x99s CMO'
Partners drive business success, create new avenues for upsell, and improve customer satisfaction by fully customizing and automating all stages of certificate lifecycle management for their customers'
The importance of gender diversity in the workplace is a pretty well-accepted fact now. While more and more companies are addressing the need to bridge the gender gap in their respective businesses, there are many instances where gender diversity has remained a \xe2\x80\x98buzzword\xe2\x80\x99 with only nominal lip-service paid to the urgent and current need for a diversified workforce. Writes Sukhdeep Aurora, Chief people Officer, Anarock Property Consultant'
On the back of India\xe2\x80\x99s ongoing water crisis, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her union budget speech highlighted that there are 100 water-stressed districts in the country. Writes Saravanam Panneer Selvam, General Manager, Grundfos India'
A Global Capability Centre and a Fully Owned Subsidiary of Epiq'
Cisco SecureX provides greater visibility across the entire security portfolio, delivers security analytics, and automates workflows to speed threat detection and response'
Unisys also names iVision as the 2019 Unisys Security Global Partner of the Year'
Wipro has been investing in people, methods and technologies to help Life Sciences clients lead with innovation and deliver better health outcomes.'
The state-of-the-art facility showcases the legacy of the group'
Xiaomi will be bringing the tech capability supported by Qualcomm\xc2\xae currently'
Micron\xe2\x80\x99s Industrial Quotient (IQ) Partner Program sets the standard for high-quality, robust, rugged and long-lasting industrial IoT products'
Wipro received the award for its significant investment towards building the comprehensive Looker services practice in 2019. The award also recognizes a commitment to executive alignment, new business development, strategic planning, cross-selling, new offering development and overall partnership excellence.'
As part of this partnership, Aeris will deploy IoT devices capabilities to help \xc3\x86ON Credit Service India build a sustainable business portfolio in the auto finance segment.'
New version supports cloud workloads and application modernization efforts with one consistent set of security policies that spans traditional and emerging environments'
Deepak NG will expand Dassault Syst\xc3\xa8mes\xe2\x80\x99 India business strategy in line with the opportunities that the country has to offer in the manufacturing, infrastructure and cities, and life sciences domains.'
BD Soft, one of the leading IT Security distributor in India has passed the official certification Abbyy (a Digital Intelligence company) FlexiCapture, an intelligent Document Processing Platform built for the needs of today\xe2\x80\x99s complex digital enterprise.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tswissnex India, the Consulate General of Switzerland, empowers Swiss technologies in the Indian market and enables Swiss startups to expand their business in India\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEvery year, around 50 Swiss startups get an exclusive opportunity to validate the Indian market via swissnex India \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTill date, nearly 60 startups coached by swissnex India are doing business with India in the fields of deeptech, renewable energy, healthtech and nanotechnologies'
In line with the recent MoU signing at the backdrop of the Brazilian president, Mr. Jair Bolsonaro\xe2\x80\x99s India visit, India and Brazil today discussed solutions for the adoption of biofuel strategy. The discussion was carried out as part of the seminar \xe2\x80\x98Sustainable Mobility: Ethanol Talks\xe2\x80\x99 in Delhi.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tAnnounces the completion of installation of 10 lakh Smart Meters across India \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tDashboards for Smart Meter National Programme, National Electric Mobility Programme and solar projects launched, to showcase real-time progress of their implementation and impact\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAnnounces the installation and commissioning of 100 MW decentralised solar power plants connected to agriculture feeders in Maharashtra\n\xe2\x80\xa2\t"EK EESL\xe2\x80\x9d an integrated mobile application of EESL programmes launched\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEESL partners with PEA-Provincial Energy Authority, Ministry of Interior, Royal Thai Government for joint efforts to advance the implementation & deployment of energy efficiency measures for SMEs in Thailand'
Unisys, will present at the Air Cargo India conference in Mumbai on 26 February, and discuss why a fundamental cultural change is essential for the air cargo industry to remain nimble, economically viable and combat escalating physical and data security threats.'
Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) emerged as best supplier of battery and associated equipment in a tender recently floated by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) for installation and maintenance of battery energy storage systems (BESS).'
-\tThere will be 2.1 billion networked devices by 2023; M2M modules will account for 25% (524.3 million) of all networked devices.\n-\tOne in twenty connections will be 5G, to reach 67.2 connections by 2023.\n-\tIndians will download 46.2 billion mobile applications by 2023'
Artificial intelligence (AI) has made its way from University laboratories to the industry and found use cases in business over the last two decades and during this time, the main focus of AI in business has been in the data-driven perspective.'
With 57 GW, Maharashtra has the largest potential to create solar energy through floating solar photovoltaics or \xe2\x80\x98photovoltaics\xe2\x80\x99, according to the study'
Enterprises in India are spending more on information security each year and are keenly looking at innovative tools to defend themselves from cyber-attacks and threats. Let\xe2\x80\x99s check the main reasons why DLP solutions are a vital part of every organizations\xe2\x80\x99 data protection arsenal.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe two have joined hands to supercharge the growth of the women led start-ups from India and Switzerland\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tTech and non-tech start-ups in healthcare, pharma, life sciences sectors will get benefitted with global market access\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tThe partnership was enabled by swissnex India to accelerate FEMentrepreneurs, an initiative to enable more young women researchers and women-led start-up'
With their fully glazed exteriors, the Edge in Amsterdam and Berlin\xe2\x80\x99s 10-storey Cube look like many other recently constructed corporate offices, but both offer a sneak peek into what many buildings of the future might look like \xe2\x80\x93 both inside and out. writes Kim Byjberg, VP, IoT and mobility, Tata communications.'
Ozonetel, India\xe2\x80\x99s leading provider of on-demand cloud communication/telephony solutions, has launched an AI-powered Speech Analytics Dashboard for Call Centers. Speech Analytics is the process of analysing any voice recording using AI-based tools. This new tool from Ozonetel, will allow call center managers to track and analyse on-going calls in real time.'
b"India is facing one of its major and most serious water crisis. It's water demand is projected to be twice the available supply by 2030, implying severe scarcity for hundreds of millions of people and an eventual 6% loss in the country's GDP, as per Composite Water Management Index (CWMI) report by NITI Aayog in 2018."
With IT infrastructure space turning into a commodity business, the cloud provider space has become increasingly cluttered. Cloud has seen unprecedented adoption in the last five years, and companies across industries and geographies continue to invest in the high-ROI technology to harness its scalability and cost benefits.'
The uses of technology is so important that even the day to day activities are dependent on it and it also makes them work in a more efficient manner.  writes Vishu Goel, Founder, Infinity Spaces. Excerpts below'
What 2019 taught us about the next big winners in real estate'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tPassenger traffic almost trebled from 123 mn passengers in FY10 to nearly 345 mn in FY 19\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tProposed new airports to boost real estate \xe2\x80\x93 particularly tourism & hospitality - in Tier 2 & 3 Cities \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tImproved connectivity will push more start-ups & IT-ITeS companies to expand their presence in smaller cities'
Aeris upgrades fleet management solutions with fuel monitoring add on~'
- Introduces \xe2\x80\x98Bring Your Own Meeting\xe2\x80\x99 concept to allow users to join video conference using their own devices\n- New range consists of 3 different models: the entry-level CX-20, the CX-30 and the high-end CX-50'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tProf. Jeffrey D. Sachs, University Professor and Director, Center for Sustainable Development, Columbia University, felicitated with the Sustainable Development Leadership Award at WSDS 2020 \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAir pollution, e-mobility, renewable energy, energy efficiency, green finance, blue economy, sustainable consumption, among a range of topics to be discussed at the three-day event'
These four cities were selected after conducting a scoping study, which considered several factors such as severity and sources of air pollution, population density and associated health impacts, economic standing of the state, readiness or preparedness of state in terms of policies/regulation etc.'
According to a 2019 report, 69% of Indian companies were at a risk of data breach and 44% of them had encountered a breach before too.'
.Akeira helps automate conversations and reduce the cost of customer service for enterprises while providing  a better customer experience.'
The joint offerings, built on SEW\xe2\x80\x99s industry-leading digital Customer Experience (CX), Workforce Engagement, Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) Machine Learning (ML) and Big data analytics platforms will deliver transformational benefits to both companies\xe2\x80\x99 new and existing clients in this space.'
At that point, he said, even the upfront cost of electric vehicles will become cheaper than combustion vehicles, with the total cost of ownership already competitive.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tMost projects seeking \xe2\x80\x98green building\xe2\x80\x99 tag are commercial spaces; a mere 5-7% of overall green building stock is residential\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tWhile a green home results in 30-40% savings on energy and water bills, they are at least 10-15% costlier \n\xe2\x80\xa2\tGovt. push is towards affordable housing; sustainability and affordability are not on the same end of the pricing spectrum\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCurrently, ecologically degrading developments are the mainstay of Indian real estate'
The Digital Blue initiative has been divided under different towers aiming specific outcomes. These towers include IT Infrastructure, all new Gold Loan platform, new Loan Management System, CRM, Data Warehouse & Analytics; which will all fit into a new enterprise level architecture. This digital transformation exercise is primarily aimed at easing scalability, building quick and agile decision-making capability, increased productivity and efficiency from business and cost standpoints.'
The end-to-end office commute service will now be available in all tech parks as well as key commercial areas in Koramangala, HSR and Indiranagar'
\xe2\x97\x8f\tThe shortlisted start-ups will benefit from WE HUB\xe2\x80\x99s network of mentors, corporates and investors and get a customised programme for each of them.\n\xe2\x97\x8f\tWE HUB selected 26 start-ups out of 265 applications received for its first cohort that graduated successfully last year, securing funds, grants and profitable tie-ups.'
The campaign was unveiled at the prestigious Auto Expo 2020 in Greater Noida. As part of this launch, an engaging display screen has been setup that will allow visitors to click themselves with popular sites in India, customized with clear blue sky. The display will be available for the visitors at the Auto Expo from 7th February to 12th February 2020.'
Danfoss is now embarking on an ambitious journey to become CO2 neutral in all of the company\xe2\x80\x99s global operations at the latest by 2030. Danfoss has for decades been a global provider of technology and solutions helping to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions all over the world.'
The partnership will consolidate and support Marelli\xe2\x80\x99s IT services at a global level'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tAirbus India and Adani Defence & Aerospace signed a Memorandum of understanding (MoU) at DefExpo 2020\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAirbus and Adani will explore opportunities for collaboration in the area of aircraft services for Indian and South Asian market\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tIndian aircraft services market to grow to US $6.3bn by 2025\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tCollaboration with Airbus is aligned to Adani Group vision of nation building'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tNew metro line in former capital city Luoyang provides comfort and safety for passengers by thyssenkrupp Elevator mobility solutions\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tthyssenkrupp is the largest supplier of escalators for the whole project\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tthyssenkrupp Elevator provides better access in ever growing cities with clear solutions for increasingly complex infrastructures'
The report was released yesterday by Mr Arun Goel, Secretary, Department of Heavy Industry, and Mr Shailendra Roy, Chair, FICCI Capital Goods Committee and Member of the Board, Larsen & Toubro Ltd.'
U.S. based wellness technology company plans to hire scores of engineers'
Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), in collaboration with Madhyamgram municipality, has started installing water meters in households to check wastage of water. Madhyamgram municipality has already installed water meter in around 2,000 households that fall under its 14 wards, under a pilot project, intending to determine the wastage of drinking water if there is any. All the other households too will get a water meter in the phased manner.'
The Indian cybersecurity market is currently worth $5 Bn, with reports CERT-In reported over 3.13 Lakh cybersecurity incidents in 2019 with Bounce, JustDial, WhatsApp, OnePlus and others were involved in security incidents last year.'
\xe2\x80\xa2\tContinued strategic investments in future technologies.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tAwarded multi-year deal worth about Rs. 1100 crore by T-Fiber.\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tEnhanced capabilities for converged networks with investment in ASOCS.'
The company leads in India\xe2\x80\x99s Enterprise Storage industry by vendor revenue, with 32% industry share (vendor revenue), Dell Technologies remained India\xe2\x80\x99s leader in external storage. Dell Technologies has maintained the top spot in this segment for 9 consecutive quarters and continues to aid Indian enterprises in their IT transformation with its cutting-edge storage portfolio.'
The newly inaugurated global Experience team blends data, machine learning, and creativity to craft customer-centric experiences that deliver the utmost value to both clients, and ultimately, their customers.'
The IT services segment revenue was at 2.09 billion dollars, marking a sequential growth of 2.2 per cent'
Depleting water supplies driving smart meter adoption.Depleting water supplies is already a major concern globally and organizations worldwide are deploying technology to address this issue as part of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).'
Estimated to be in Nokh, Jaisalmer, the Solar Park is supposed to expand over an area of 1,850 hectares and will be the maiden project under the solar policy announced recently by the state government.'
He replaced Viral Acharya, the 3rd Deputy Governor of RBI. Patra is forth RBI governor, who will hold this position for the next three years from the date of his appointment.'
The declaration targets developing and deepening the cultural, social, economic and tourism ties between the two cities.'
The solar plant at the Science Park is part of the commitment to sustainable development. his initiative is expected to reduce an estimated 51 tonnes per year of carbon dioxide emissions.'
The purpose of this MoU is to develop the Road safety audit pool that can help in identifying safety issues and remedial measures on highways and streets and contribute towards improving overall road traffic safety in the country.'
Millions of consumers across the EbixCash network in more than 75,000 villages and 4,000 cities will access MoneyGram\xe2\x80\x99s leading capabilities and global platform. The Strategic Partnership aims to bring inward remittance volumes of $3 Billion annually to India.'
\xe2\x80\x9cBarco has a globally proven track record when it comes to smart city solutions and we are positioning ourselves as the ideal partner for the smart city projects. As the Centre moves to enhance the utilization of existing infrastructure, Barco is enabling real-time information sharing, analysis and responsiveness among varied stakeholders like individuals, corporates and public institutions\xe2\x80\x9d, says Rajiv Bhalla, Managing Director,  Barco India, in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
Besides, the IT solutions provider is betting big on the cybersecurity segment in view of ever-rising incidents of cyberthreats.'
"The world is innovating from Indian and India is innovating for the world. India has eased the patent to drive a massive amount of innovation, without manufacturing India cannot achieve $5 Trillion Economy", said Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog in a recent gathering.'
At the initiative of the Ministry for Home Affairs (MHA), 15 states and Union Territories (UTs) have given their consent to set up regional Cyber Crime Coordination Centres at their respective regions, a government statement said.'
In a recent development, the Telangana government aims to install 138 EV charging stations by next year and the state\xe2\x80\x99s EV policy aims to attract investments worth $3 Bn by 2022. The state will be collaborating with Rajasthan Electronics and Instruments Limited for the project.'
In this connection, the railway board has identified 100 routes for private operators to run over 150 trains'
The pact aimed to build an ecosystem for efficient and greener electric bus transportation systems in India,'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe public cloud adoption among enterprises has been increasing in India since the recent past. Blazeclan has been helping several companies in their cloud journey and summed up a lot of automation for the launch and deployment of cloud infrastructure faster, even for secure and most regulated environments\xe2\x80\x9d, Varoon Rajani asserts in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
The state-of-the-art facility will offer sophisticated IoT (Internet of Things) solutions and distinct service offerings with global delivery standards.'
Ajay Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) recently stated that emerging technologies will result in rapid transformation in all spheres, enabling the delivery system more effective.'
myApps will be a platform to enable Urban Local Bodies(ULB) including smart-cities and municipalities, housing societies,  to digitize their ecosystem.'
All four e-toilets will be strategically set up on the 1.1 km stretch of the road between Ashok Stambh to Trimbak Road. The facility is being put in place for the convenience of citizens.'
Strengthening its wireless portfolio to deliver end-to-end open standard 5G solutions, STL, a global data network innovator, today announced an investment in ASOCS, a developer of open, disruptive and virtualized Radio Access Network (vRAN) solutions, delivering 4G and 5G for cellular networks.'
b"The Urban Affairs Minister of Meghalaya, Hamletson Dohling asserted of implementing the smart city projects worth INR 160 crores in Shillong, which is among 99 cities selected under Central Government's Smart City mandate."
The acquisition will make Accenture Security one of the world\xe2\x80\x99s leading providers of managed security services.  The acquisition will make Accenture Security one of the leading providers of managed security services, further enhancing its ability to help companies rapidly anticipate, detect and respond to cyber threats.'
To enhance the student living experience, Oxfordcaps residences are custom designed and standardized across all its properties. The company offers fully furnished accommodation, along with amenities such as nutritious meals, Wi-Fi services, professional housekeeping, security provisions, transport facilities and access to common spaces such as lounges, games and reading rooms.'
The all in one QR will allow merchants to accept unlimited payments via PayTM wallet, Rupay Cards, and other UPI based payment apps directly into their bank accounts without any fees involved.'
The depot will be constructed in 31 hectares of the land parcel and it will have a waste-water treatment plant that can recycle the water used for washing metro trains. To wash the metro coaches, an automatic coach wash plant will be installed in the depot at the entry/exit point of the mainline.'
Survey of 3,000 consumers in the U.S., China, and France examines views on personalization in healthcare, mobility, retail, and home and city environments\nPersonalization in healthcare, prioritized over other categories, will require AI, 5G and home assistant technologies to achieve, according to respondents.\nConsumers will pay on average 25.3% more for personalization, but they expect savings in return\nGeneration X, millennials, and Generation Z are more willing to pay and share data for personalization that brings personal safety, time, monetary benefits'
Pilot projects to start on two stretches of Ranchi, inclusive of features like Integrated Traffic Management system, good quality CCTV surveillance and variable message signboards.'
Launched by three veteran entrepreneurs, it is a USD 60M fund focused on Deep Tech for human good. The fund is uniquely designed to grow valuation of startups through its strategic partnerships with investors, global network, industry experience and market expertise.'
L&amp;T Infrastructure Finance to provide Term Loan to AG&amp;P for the Development of City Gas Distribution Networks in South and West India.'
Divisional Commissioner, Patna, Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal stated that 9 Public service centers to be made operational by Feb 2020 and the remaining 19 by April 2020.'
RAH Infotech and Veeam Software have joined hands to address the data management needs of Government, Indian enterprises and SMEs.'
The blockchain-based platform, Vajra by NPCI can be used by various payment companies and is supported by Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT).  The tech-enabled platform will also facilitate Adhaar authentication.'
\xe2\x80\x9cIn Madhya Pradesh the Urban Development department is already in the process of developing energy from waste materials massively in Jabalpur, wherein, a waste to energy plant has been established and about 800 metric tonnes of solid waste is converted into energy", asserted Parikipandla Narahari, Commissioner of Urban Administration Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts Below:'
VSP G130 is an extension of the hybrid-flash VSP G series systems that supports smaller data center modernization initiatives. VSP G130 provides agile data infrastructure with minimal costs for SMBs, remote or branch offices that need local backup capabilities, direct-attached storage (DAS) environments, and simplified virtual server deployments.'
The tie-up is to focus on geographical coverage, large enterprise & government projects, smart cities mission, thus, targeting double-digit growth for R&amp;M India.'
The ranking of the municipal corporation issued by Urban Administration and Housing Development (UAHD) of the MP Government, has Chhindwara constituency topping the list, followed by Burhanpur and Dewas.'
Situated 70 kilometers away from Bengaluru, Tumakuru Smart city is planned to spread across 1354.97 acres of land, with an investment of Rs 1800 crores.\xe2\x80\x8
Companies that shift from AI experimentation to execution achieve lasting ROI and competitive agility.'
Shri Amit Singla succeeds Dr.Rashmi Singh who has been transferred North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North-DMC) as an Additional Commissioner.'
b"According to data released by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), it's Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) app was used for making 17.82 million transactions worth Rs 6,316.37 crore. In other words, the app now contributes a mere 1.37% to UPI usage in volume terms."
As a part of the promotional activity, a No-Vehicle day will be implemented once a month, to encourage citizens to ride bicycles.'
According to the report released, based on evaluating the progress of States and Union Territories on social, economic and environmental parameters, Kerala retained its rank as the top state with a score of 70. Chandigarh too maintained its top spot among the UTs with a score of 70.'
This move of the Government of India will boost original vehicle manufacturers to bring out electric versions and will need them to initiate the procurement procedure in a time-bound manner.'
The flagship mission of the Government of India, impacted over 7.5 crore households from the distribution of over 36.13 crore LED bulbs & installation of 1.03 crore streetlights.'
b"The pact intends to deliver smart solutions for Karnataka's Tumakuru Smart City and improve city infrastructure massively."
The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) recently introduced free Wi-Fi service inside metro trains for the Airport Express Line.'
The State government, in association with Intel, IIIT Hyderabad and PHFI, will set up a Centre for Research in Applied AI (CriAA) to focus on diagnostics, proactive public health, autonomous navigation and supply chain automation. The centre would also conduct research on connected vehicles and multi-vehicle systems, security, privacy and datasets.'
This program has been envisaged by the Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) and will impact the ministry of communications & IT, ministry of rural development, ministry of human resource development, ministry of health and others.'
In a bitter situation last year, over 25 lakh residents of Pimpri-Chinchwad  were affected by acute water  shortage. However, the situation can improve for better in 2020 as the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has \xe2\x80\x9cpromised\xe2\x80\x9d to improve the water supply system'
TERI developed a platform enabling peer-to-peer transactions of solar energy among consumers in the same neighborhood.'
Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Shri Jai Ram Thakur sanctioned massive developmental projects worth Rs 525 crores which includes Rs 406 crores water supply scheme for Shimla.'
Smart City Kochi to raise an additional Rs 4000 crore from the potential investors in its Phase III, IV and V by activating infrastructure-ready residential plots and others.'
The major bureaucratic reshuffle announced by Uttar Pradesh Government is intended to secure better administration in the state.'
In a transfer order issued by the Haryana government on the last day of 2019, 9 IAS officers in the state are rejigged, besides 3 HCS officers.'
Sellers under the program shall receive time-bound incubation support from Flipkart that extends to a host of benefits, such as cataloging support, account management support and more.'
Indore has retained the title of the cleanest city in the last three years. This time a total of 4,372 cities participated in the league.'
The sewerage project worth Rs 300 crore installed in 2004 is functional at the point, after, serious measures to remove piled debris and garbages.'
The two organizations have entered into a two-year MoU with the objective of synergizing business development for setting up Public Charging Infrastructure to boost electric mobility in India.'
The finance minister said the government has already amended two laws \xe2\x80\x94 Income Tax Act and the Payments and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 \xe2\x80\x94 to give effect to these provisions.'
Powered with technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT), these devices keep the pulse of a smart city alive. Cameras represent one of the key elements of surveillance systems that make up the smart city market, which is expected to grow to $2.75 trillion by 2023.'
The Gurgaon-based Centre is the first of its kind in India to fully demonstrate the integration of key technology platforms for IT-OT convergence, enabling customers to understand the benefits of the Connected Enterprise and the positive impact that it can have on their business. The Centre also illustrates how solutions and services offered are entirely scalable and can be tailored to businesses.'
As a countermeasure to beat the climate change and the impending problem of pollution in New Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal led the Delhi government passed the policy and is expectant that 5 lakhs EVs to be registered in the coming five years.'
The Good Governance Index is a uniform tool across States to assess the Status of Governance and impact of various interventions taken up by the State Government and UTs. The objectives of GGI are to provide quantifiable data to compare the state of governance in all states and UTs, enable states and UTs to formulate and implement suitable strategies for improving governance and shift to result-oriented approaches and administration.'
SenRa, a contributing member of the LoRa Alliance\xc2\xae, is a PAN India Low Power Wide Area Network Provider (LPWAN), specifically LoRaWAN\xc2\xae, for the Internet of Things (IoT) and Machine to Machine (M2M) solutions and applications. SenRa is currently deploying LPWANs throughout India for projects which require secure, reliable, long distance communication at low cost.'
Will you be ready? With autonomous delivery making its way to consumer doorsteps, here\xe2\x80\x99s what you need to know \xe2\x80\x93 and how you can prepare for the new distribution ecosystem.'
A franchise model is more popular in non-metro or small cities, where the entrepreneurs aim to get brands to their hometown & make their small city a smart city with all the latest technology and amenities. Here, the question that hits the mind is what is a smart city or rather what makes a city smart?'
The Cloud for Digital Governance Tour is open to technocrats and IT professionals across the entire government ecosystem, including employees of Public Sector undertakings; government partners as well as solutions/systems integrators.'
The major reshuffle in Punjab Administration lists out several officers across departments.'
The announcement was made in a recent meeting held by Varanasi Development Committee'
Funds have also been released for the development of taluk sports grounds, \xe2\x80\x98Garadi Mane\xe2\x80\x99 (local gymnasium), sports hostels and sports equipment in various schools in rural areas, he said.'
The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has chosen the Hubballi project for the certificate of merit under the \xe2\x80\x9cBest Smart Health Project\xe2\x80\x9d category.'
While the projects are soon to enter their third phase, civic authorities prioritize on 44 initiatives including solving traffic and surveillance issues and Palayam market redevelopment.'
An initiative by Startup India and led by DPIIT, WING is a unique capacity development program that aims to support 7500 women entrepreneurs in the country per year. WE Hub will drive the success of the program in Telangana to identify and provide aspiring women entrepreneurs access to incubation, investors and business support. Additionally, WE Hub will lead the task of scouting outstanding women-led startups in Telangana for the National Start-up Award 2020'
Programme to help 10,000 engineering students, the platform enables learning the skills required in emerging technologies. More importantly, it helps individuals develop an aptitude for learning. Wipro has paved the road for many more companies by establishing a model on partnering with universities.\xe2\x80\x9d'
A joint collaboration between the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC), Industrial Training Institute (ITI) and Johnson Controls - Hitachi Air Conditioning India Limited (JCH-IN), these skills development centres to impart skill in AC Repairing and Maintenance'
Albania\xe2\x80\x99s telecom market is growing significantly and over 1.1 million subscribers are increasing mobile data demand. Telekom Albania has chosen to overcome any legacy constraints by moving to a digital platform powered by STL, to be designed, deployed and managed by STL and Cognity over the next 7 (seven) years.'
\xe2\x80\x9cAt DIGISOL, we truly believe in growing with our partners and support them in taking the latest innovation to the end customers. DIGISOL is working closely with government and consultants to develop cities that are safe, sustainable, and comprehensive\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Devendra Kamtekar, CEO, Digisol Systems in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
Water is a limited resource and it is currently being monopolized in an unregulated manner. The general perception is that freshwater can only be used once. A conscious thought must be given to recycling or reusing the same water for multiple purposes.'
In a recent major development, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITy) approved a fund of INR 435 crores for a period of three years to technically skill 4,12,000 professionals'
The civic body has so far completed 18 projects worth \xe2\x82\xb9 72.67 crore.'
b"In a first in the country, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) implements a blockchain-enabled platform for its Property Tax Assessment, under  MoHUA's flagship program \xe2\x80\x93\xe2\x80\x98Accelerating Growth of New India\xe2\x80\x99s Innovation\xe2\x80\x99 (AGNIi), Startup India and Invest India."
\xe2\x80\x9cKerala government earned significant revenue of Rs 36,000 crores from the tourism market, which is roughly around 10 to 11 percent of the state GDP and it is already employing about 1.5 million people of the state. The best thing about tourism is that it is a definite employment provider to the state economy and for the local people, and cannot be replaced by machines.  In that context, Kerala which is primarily known for eco-friendliness and nature conservation, tourism is the perfect industry that thrives here in prosperity", asserted an optimistic P Balakiran, CEO Smart City Trivandrum Limited and Director Kerala Tourism in interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
In the run-up to the 11th GRIHA Summit, a bamboo cottage titled Venu Kutir will be on display at the India Habitat Centre till December 22.'
In a bid to curb cybercrimes in the state, the Maharashtra cyber department is set to launch a portal consisting of advisories on trending cybercrimes as well as guidance on how to take precautions.'
b"Three PBS companies Delhi Cycles Private Limited, SLS Construction Private Limited, and Smart Bike Mobility Private Limited approved response to the UT Government's Public Bicycle Sharing Project, after much delay."
Maharashtra government has agreed to transfer 14 acres for a station near Thane'
Gurgaon-based developer, M3M, signed a pact with the Swedish firm to develop 165 acre Smart City project which will attract a foreign investment of US $ 2 billion'
HP recently conducted its first ever Global Investors Meet in Dharamshala on 7-8th November, 2019 wherein one of the focus areas was urban development. The policy landscape has been amended in order to facilitate private players to attract investment in Urban areas in fields like Housing, new township, SWM and urban transportation. Realistically speaking, in the coming decade HP would witness most planned urban development in the country based on principles of sustainability and ecological sensitivity. Virendra Sharma, Joint Secretary, Urban Development, Government of Himachal Pradesh explains why rapid and imbalanced urbanization may prove chancy for the ecology and sustainability of the region, in a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts Below:'
We under Nashik Smart city are in process of building Citizen Experience center where with the use of technology we will showcase the projects taken under this project. This again is the use of technology where the Ramayana circuit will be displaced with the use of VR (Virtual reality) technology along with use of other IOT technologies\xe2\x80\x9d, exclaimed an assertive Radhakrishna Game, Commissioner, Nashik Municipal Corporation in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
The transfers were announced late on Thursday night. Sunaina Tomar has been shifted to the energy and petrochemicals department,'
Arun Goel is the new secretary, Department of Heavy Industry, Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises. He replaces Asha Ram Sihag wh retires on December 31.'
The growing population of world is moving towards urban demanding for more efficient, smart and sustainable development and infrastructure, writes Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning India.'
The charging station has been installed in the SDMC parking area in Greater Kailash 1 N Block market. EESL to install more than 75 Charging stations in SDMC area'
\xe2\x80\x9cAs the global fight against plastic pollution has become more pertinent that ever before, industries are collectively on the lookout for an alternative to put an end to this global crisis. Aluminium, commonly referred to as the green metal has emerged as the next best alternative and is fulfilling the needs of industries that are aiming to be more responsible towards the environment\xe2\x80\x9d, writes K R Raghunath, Vice Chairman, Jindal Aluminium Limited.'
The hardware technology major, a  multinational technology company, have grabbed their largest order of 14,944 Online UPS along with 2988 computers, from Andhra Pradesh Technology Services Limited (APTS), for Andhra Gram Panchayat Project'
The Tirunelveli Smart City Special Purpose Vehicle, which has been entrusted with the assignment of executing projects selected under Union Government-funded \xe2\x80\x98Smart City\xe2\x80\x99 program, has identified 19 more development works under this project to be executed at the cost of \xe2\x82\xb9 310.64 crore to be implemented in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai in addition to the projects already approved by the Smart City Board of Directors.'
Announces \xe2\x80\x98Internet for the Future\xe2\x80\x99 Strategy and the Industry\xe2\x80\x99s Most Ambitious Silicon Architecture\nCisco shares further details behind its \xe2\x80\x98Internet for the Future\xe2\x80\x99 technology strategy based on development investments in Silicon+Optics+Software'
Tech Mahindra will engage with more than 15 lakh citizens of PCMC by enabling technology-led transformation to convert it into a smart and sustainable city.'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe Draft Personal Data Protection Bill is a foundational framework that aims to lay down the key principles governing the protection and privacy of personal data. This will spell out the rights of data principals- whose data is being processed and the responsibilities and obligations of Data Fiduciaries, to whom such data is entrusted for processing\xe2\x80\x9d, said Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology,(MeitY), Government of India, in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty & Dr. Rajeshree Dutta Kumar of BW SmartCitiesWorld.'
Rapid urbanization in India means that our top cities are approaching an affordable housing crisis and as a nation, we are not yet fully prepared.'
Earlier, Nutanix was also designated as a March 2019 Gartner Peer Insights Customers\xe2\x80\x99 Choice vendor for hyper-converged infrastructure.'
\xe2\x80\x9cAs a part of the Green City initiative, we have requested each and every councillors to plant a sapling in their wards, which we have mandated to construct public green spaces for citizens with eco-friendly materials. This initiative is a way forward to enhance sustainable living for the citizens. These open spaces are called \xe2\x80\x98Neighbourhood Parks\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an enthusiastic Secretary, Port Blair Municipal Council, Suneel Anchipaka in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts as under:'
While Israel, like many other countries, still follows the \xe2\x80\x9c6 vector paradigm\xe2\x80\x9d (Smart mobility, People, Economy, Environment, Government and Living, known as Boyd-Cohen\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Wheel), more and more Israeli cities are freeing themselves from the \xe2\x80\x98big-vendor-oriented solutions\xe2\x80\x99. Instead, they are adopting challenge-based processes focusing on solutions that can improve lives and the cost-efficiency of governing cities with dynamic changes striving to be real smart cities. Writes Architect Rafi Rich, SUiTS & MiDCityLabs IL.  .'
Videonetics has supported Nagpur in achieving the Smart City status, under the Smart City Mission of Government of India, by securing its roads with an AI & DL powered Intelligent Traffic Management Solution. \nThe solution has helped the city to solve its traffic enforcement problems such as red light jumping, zebra crossing/ stop line violations, over-speeding violations, tracking of suspect/ stolen vehicle, and generating e-challan/ e-ticket for violators as per the Motor Vehicles Act. It includes applications like Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR), Red Light Violation Detection (RLVD), Integrated e-Challan Management Software.'
The state of the art command center will be a nodal point for traffic management and city surveillance, and soon bring in other utilities such as waste management, water, lighting, parking, urban mobility, and power distribution. Powered by Cisco\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City digital solutions, the ICCC will offer a unified management experience for city infrastructure, simplifying control room operation and system integration, while increasing operational efficiency and lowering operating costs.'
\xe2\x80\x9cIT inventions are the bedrocks are the base of smart cities development. Andaman has a submarine under-cable project underway, and by June 2020, the lack of connectivity may be a thing of the past. We are in the process of bringing about Rs 20,000 crores of investment to the islands from private stakeholders in the next 4 years, and Rs 30000 crores till 2025\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an optimistic Chetan B Sanghi, Chief Secretary, Andaman & Nicobar Administration in a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cDeclared as a Smart City, under the Smart City Mission of the Central Government in 2016, Port Blair has project size worth INR 770 Crores, which is further expanded to project size of INR 1100 crores with recommendations from local administration. A lot of leg work has happened till date in identifying aspects which can get off the ground to an implementation stage, with a fund of INR 200 crore being released by the Government of India, till date\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Vikram Dev Dutt, Principal Secretary, Urban Development, Andaman and Nicobar Administration in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe mission is proving to be a game-changer in the urban transformation of our country.  The mission is proving to be a game-changer in the urban transformation of our country.  It is arguably the largest and most complex urbanization initiative on the planet, catalyzing investments of Rs. 2 lakh crore for the development of 100 Smart Cities\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Kunal Kumar, Joint Secretary and Mission Director, Smart Cities Mission, Government of India in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty and Dr. Rajeshree Dutta Kumar, of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts Below:'
Premium office submarkets in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai and Bengaluru compare with the world\xe2\x80\x99s most premium offices'
Property prices in Hyderabad are relatively lower when compared to other metropolises like Mumbai and Bangalore.'
The company doubled its revenue after crossing INR 100cr at the end of FY19'
As part of its ongoing efforts to promote hiring across the industry and ensuring there is a well equipped and industry-ready workforce, the National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM)  announced that it has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Tamil Nadu.'
Airborne nanoparticles from diesel vehicles are even more harmful to human health than PM2.5 and PM10. TERI has suggested modifications to India\xe2\x80\x99s bio-diesel policy to reduce nanoparticle emissions'
The transaction value of digital payments in India is estimated to grow annually at a rate of 20.2 per cent from about USD 64.8 billion in 2019 to USD 135.2 billion in 2023, the report by PwC India and Data Security Council of India said.'
"We are looking at building more smart cities where Swedish businesses can contribute," said FM Nirmala Sitharaman'
Needless to say, a smart city blueprint based on IoT using Big Data Analytics to process the data generated will depend on an infinitely elastic data infrastructure.'
Residential sales are likely to pick up due to multiple measures being taken up by the government to relieve the sector. This fact itself will help developers to repay their loan dues.'
The jury agreed on the outcome of the smart idea resulting in a better living experience to be a parameter for smart cities'
Opinion is divided on the extent of impact Artificial Intelligence (AI) and automation will have on the future of jobs. According to the World Economic Forum[i], by 2022, 75 million jobs may be displaced by automation, while 133 million additional new roles may emerge concurrently.'
\xe2\x80\x9cArray has assisted in devising futuristic data centers for smart cities by introducing unique concepts such as Hyper-Convergence in networking into the Data Centers. Array\xe2\x80\x99s hyper-converged solution stack include Application Delivery Controllers (ADC), Web application firewalls (WAF), DDoS, Web vulnerability scanners, SSLi &  MARS Visibility & analytics tool\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Shibu Paul, Vice President \xe2\x80\x93 International Sales at Array Networks in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Details below:'
Research suggests that most manufacturers are facing increasing difficulty when it comes to staying ahead of the competition, based on only their products.'
MuleSoft unveils new innovations that make it possible for any user to integrate systems, unify data and deliver truly connected personalized customer experiences. MuleSoft unleashes the power of Salesforce Customer 360 by unlocking data across any application, source or device \xe2\x80\x93 wherever it resides, within Salesforce or outside it . World\xe2\x80\x99s #1 integration and API platform provider pledges to skill up 100,000 Integration Trailblazers, arming the workforce of today and tomorrow with the tools to drive digital transformation'
Einstein Voice Skills will empower admins and developers to build custom, voice-powered Salesforce apps tailored to any role or industry, giving every employee a personalized CRM guide. Service Cloud Voice integrates telephony into a unified agent console, enabling Einstein to offer recommendations and next best actions in real-time to improve service experiences, Einstein Call Coaching helps managers spot trends within conversational data and provide sales reps with the best practices and insights needed to optimize every customer call'
Customer 360 Truth is a new set of capabilities that allow companies to connect, authenticate and govern customer data and identity across Salesforce. Now, with a complete view and deeper understanding of every customer, companies can deliver more personalized customer experiences.'
Dell EMC PowerOne self-driving infrastructure with built-in intelligence can automate thousands of tasks and deliver ready-to-run resources in a few clicks, shifting IT staff from routine to strategic objectives. All-in-one system automates Dell EMC PowerEdge servers, PowerSwitch networking PowerMax storage and options for PowerProtect data protection that is deployed, managed and maintained holistically. Supported by Dell Technologies on Demand with a portfolio of flexible payment options, supports the acquisition of system capabilities as needed to balance CAPEX and OPEX\n\xe2\x80\xa2\tJoins the Dell Technologies Cloud portfolio of infrastructure offerings to help customers simplify their path to a hybrid cloud'
Seamless connectivity is mission-critical for connected cars as they evolve towards full autonomy. Latency that diminishes a car\xe2\x80\x99s instant response to external factors must be eliminated to inspire confidence in the average driver.'
dTelco equips telecom companies to deliver hyper-personalised customer experience.'
peaking at the Sustainable Dialogue on Air Pollution, co-organised with Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), Dr Ajay Mathur, Director General, TERI said, \xe2\x80\x9cDelhi\xe2\x80\x99s air pollution is a solvable problem. There are solutions both in terms of technologies and for meeting the necessary costs. TERI is putting forward definitive measures for addressing peak and non-peak pollution sources, both of which are absolutely essential to improve Delhi\xe2\x80\x99s air quality.'
b"Leading technology services company says connected enterprises, campuses, cities and societies will be a focus in 2020 as it launches it's Future Disrupted\xe2\x80\x99 predictions, looking at technology trends for the next 12 months and beyond"
DevOps and security teams have historically been known to work in silos until the end of the development process, resulting in friction between both teams. This is because security is often an afterthought in a race to roll out products and services to market, not leaving enough time to address the potential vulnerabilities that may arise. Organizations that effectively meld DevOps and cybersecurity can shift security from an afterthought to a proactive practice and reduce the Cyber Exposure gap.'
Work to begin by March 31. Smart City Shimla will have 3 flyovers, 5 roundabouts to decongest the growing traffic.'
German development agency GiZ, which is carrying out the Climate Smart Cities programme in city, is expected to come up with the new mobile app in a month.'
Manufacturers plan to invest more than ever in smart factories but challenges in scaling must be overcome'
The rapid advancements in the proficiency of AI have led to the familiar concern that it will cause a dearth of jobs and an increase in unemployment. But let\xe2\x80\x99s address the monster under the bed; is AI going to steal jobs?'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe are partnering with both state and central governments to realise their dreams of a unified digital India. STL Garv, our rural development initiative is aimed at making rural India future ready. Centre\xe2\x80\x99s prestigious BharatNet program aims to connect more than 600,000 villages in the country with high-speed fibre network for the digital delivery of several citizen-centric services. With initiatives such as MahaNet in Maharashtra and Smart Cities in Kakinada, we have distinguished ourselves as a trusted technology partner to the government, equipping them with the tools and technologies to expand reach into rural India\xe2\x80\x9d, affirmed K S Rao, CEO, Network Service Business, Sterlite Technologies Limited in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
The Lucknow team looked into the details on how historical buildings in the city being preserved on legacy, revamped through civil works and seamlessly integrated into the public convenience.'
Distributed Energy, a renewable energy aggregator with a large Indian market focus, announced one of its kind platform that connects credible renewable projects with investors.'
The award was received by M Govinda Roa, Managing Director, CSCL and Deputy Commissioner (Works), Greater Chennai Corporation.\xe2\x80\x8
The four organizations signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) today in the presence of K. T. Rama Rao, state cabinet minister for IT E&amp;C, MA&amp;UD and Industries & Commerce Departments, Government of Telangana. The collaboration aims at solving the business and growth challenges faced by India\xe2\x80\x99s social impact startups. At least 5000 social impact startups nationwide are expected to be positively enabled by this partnership in 5 years, providing each with opportunities to scale-up'
Here are the immediate measures the government should undertake to re-infuse confidence and further revive the housing sector'
The Internet of Things (IoT) has evolved with the progression of Internet in the past two decades. For starters, IoT is essentially the internetwork of physical things such as sensors, devices, vehicles, buildings, and other objects which are embedded with electronics, software, sensors, actuators, and network connectivity that enable these objects to pick data, assemble and exchange the data. With IoT, the communication is extended through the Internet among all the things that surround us.'
\xe2\x80\x9cOver the last 20 years Denave has gone through four business transformations \xe2\x80\x93 from a Channel Management Services company to a Business Process Outsourcing company to a Sales Enablement company. The fourth phase of business transformation is an ongoing process - that of a Sales Tech company supported by premium sales enablement services and products\xe2\x80\x9d, assures Snehashish Bhattacharjee, Global CEO, Denave in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Details below'
\xe2\x80\x9cNutanix will continue to support the Government of India with the latest software-driven technologies to ensure that India\xe2\x80\x99s enterprises and cities maintain their strong economic and technological leadership\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Balakrishnan Anantharaman, VP and MD- Sales, India and SAARC, Nutanix in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts as follows:'
UST Global, a leading digital transformation solutions company, today announced that it has acquired ComplyUSA, a comprehensive compliance assessment and privacy automation platform.'
b"\xe2\x80\x9cUC has transitioned from a browser tool to a content platform and the change is based on UC's insight towards the Indian market and change in need of our local users. Indian users have been extremely active in the consumption of digital content for the last few years. Users\xe2\x80\x99 content demand has grown significantly\xe2\x80\x9d, said Mr Huaiyuan Yang, Vice President of UCWeb Global Business in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:"
Micron\xc2\xae Authenta\xe2\x84\xa2 Key Management Service guards IoT devices through cloud-based activation of secure element-like functionality integrated into NOR and NAND flash. Hardware-based security solution provides robust protection of device functionality at the silicon level, regardless of the choice of SoC hardware implementations'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe should start by ensuring basic cyber hygiene across the nation. We need to accord cybersecurity the same amount of attention and resources that we give to disaster management and physical asset protection\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Vinod Kumar, CEO, Subex Ltd. in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cAt Cisco, we believe that in order to create the next generation of smart and connected cities we need to focus on five key areas: visionary leadership, global open standards, smart regulation, public-private partnerships and a new ecosystem. We have deployed our smart city solutions and programs taking all these facets into account\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Daisy Chittilapilly, Managing Director, Digital Transformation Office, Cisco India & SAARC in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cSunAlpha has grown more than 3x year-on-year since incorporation. While maintaining such growth levels in the industry is challenging, SunAlpha has risen to the same and shown that high volume international standards of work can be done at reasonable rates. Our existing client are our biggest assets since they have encouraged, appreciated and pushed us forward\xe2\x80\x9d, said, Puneet Goyal, Co-Founder, SunAlpha Energy in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Detailed Conversation below'
\xe2\x80\x9cOtis has developed and is accelerating additional efforts across the organization to expand the use of internal service apps being developed by field teams around the world. These new tools enable our field employees to be more efficient, source information faster, develop even stronger ties with the customer and see a problem before it becomes one\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Sebi Joseph, President, Otis India in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
Invites game developers to disrupt learning through innovative gameplay mechanics.'
The decision was taken by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.'
The platform helps mobile, cable and wireline operators with deployment and investment strategies for next-generation communications technologies'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe city has a functional wet waste processing plant and a biomethanation plant is being commissioned shortly. Work of 30 key roads of the city is ongoing, and another 25 is on the anvil. A new water-supply scheme that will comprehensively address the water situation has been approved. Nearly 80 city buses are running and more are being added to the fleet. All this has resulted in a positive environment in the city that should indirectly result in more jobs in days to come. The projects have also had a positive impact on tourism\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an energetic Nipun Vinayak, Commissioner Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and CEO, Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cTERI is a not-for-profit research institute that focuses on all the aspects of environment, energy, and waste management as well as their linkage to climate change, health and sustainable development. The Institute is also working to develop and implement technology solutions, emerging from national policies, to address the adverse impact energy use and waste management on the environment\xe2\x80\x9d, shared Dr. Suneel Pandey, Director, Environment and Waste Management Division, TERI (The Energy and Resources Institute) with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below'
b"'Public Transport' feature on the Uber App will provide live transit information about Delhi Metro and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC)."
b"Karnataka government's initiative seeks to promote electric vehicle adoption. The draft is currently pending before the law department."
\xe2\x80\x9cNewgen has been acting as an enabler for responsive and modern brand of governance.Our solutions for e-governance, such as e-Office, e-Municipality, e-Secretariat, smartcity, direct benefit transfer (DBT), electronic document &amp;records management, etc., are being utilized by multiple Government departments, PSUs, and agencies across the country to provide a digitally enabled workspace\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Diwakar Nigam, Chairman & MD - Newgen Software Technologies Limited in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty. Details below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe GRIHA rating system takes a holistic approach toward sustainable action intended to mitigate climate change, a significant aspect of which is: reduction in GHG emissions from the construction and operation of India\xe2\x80\x99s building stock\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Sanjay Seth, CEO, GRIHA Council in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cSubex Secure is built for securing diverse IoT and Operational Technology deployments. The ongoing R&amp;D backing our product focuses on securing these deployments from a range of cross-spectrum threats to business, smart cities, and government infrastructure.  As of today, we run one of the largest cyber threat intelligences gathering infrastructure in the world and the quality and volume of intelligence gathered by us is not just current and relevant but also essential for protecting the deployments we are securing\xe2\x80\x9d, assures Kiran Zachariah, Vice President, IoT Business Solutions, Subex Limited in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cFor us, where we see a peak of opportunity is how you manage the public transportation. How you have to do the modeling of public transportation, multimodal whether I go I combine metro bus and car and taxi. The oldest transportation management system is one of the areas that I see is common in every Indian city because today when you look at the Indian city, I will take the example of Bangalore because I live there, usually you have metro lines\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Samson Khaou, Managing Director, Dassault Systemes in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
TCS had earlier partnered with Vodafone India. Vodafone Idea Ltd has extended its partnership with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) for an additional five years.'
b"The Experience Zone, part of Ingram Micro's regional headquarters located in the Innovation hub at Dubai Internet City, was inaugurated by Omar Al Olama, Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence."
The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Google India have tied up under a six-month program that features learning and mentorship activities.'
GVMC will take up works worth Rs 100 to Rs120 crore this fiscal in tune with the annual revenue flow of the civic body.'
The State Government transferred eight IAS officers in the state.'
\xe2\x80\x9cOur investments in tech-enabled customer acquisition, order fulfillment, order management, and grievance redressal reduce our operating costs significantly to ensure that we are working at a strong positive unit economics for Design, Delivery and Maintenance of Solar Rooftop Systems\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted Pranesh Chaudhary, CEO of ZunRoof, in a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:'
The Madhya Pradesh Incubation and Startup Policy 2016 was formulated to align the state with the Centre\xe2\x80\x99s Startup India initiative and intends to offer incentives to the state\xe2\x80\x99s startups and incubators in addition to those provided by the central government.'
Alibaba subsidiary Whale Cloud, which has a data centre in Mumbai, unveiled a 5G operation map for the country. The 5G operation map will guide communication service providers to better operate the 5G network and business, speed up the returns of 5G investments, and improve core competence in the country.'
e-novation Centre, India\xe2\x80\x99s First privately-owned R&amp;D Corporate hub, a state-of-the-art infrastructure exclusively dedicated to R&amp;D, training and innovation is coming up in the institutional area in Sector 75, Gurugram.'
\xe2\x80\x9cPrimarily, the focus of the IT department is to invest in physical infrastructure in terms of connectivity, IT support and services that are required. The second major focus is on skill upgradation of government employees, through two processes. Each department has nodal officers, both at secretariat level and at directorate level, who continually hosts and run training programs for government employees, aimed for their skilling and upgradation\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an optimistic M Sivashankar, Secretary, Information Technology and Electronics, Government of Kerala during a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts as below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cIndia is an Under-served market. With the growth of cloud adoption, the Data Center consumption is booming. Global revenue forecast is estimated to increase by 35% in 2020. APAC will be largest beneficiary as the internet penetration continues to increase, especially in India. India is contributing an increasing global share of data generation with stats at 3.6% of global share in 2014, estimated to grow to 6% by 2020. DC operators are prioritizing India as underserved high growth market\xe2\x80\x9d, said Nikhil Rathi during a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld.  Excerpts below'
The typical enterprise expects the threat to arrive within three years'
NEC Technologies India (NECTI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEC Corporation, has announced that it has been selected by Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) as the master system integrator for the smart city project in the twin cities. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2020, and NECTI is also contracted to provide operation and maintenance of the systems for the following five years.'
5G Edge Mantra increases capacity in operator networks across an array of locations. It brings storage, computing and processing capabilities as a datacentre to the edge of the network with an end to end infrastructure offering.'
Vodafone Idea Business Services (VIBS), the enterprise arm of Vodafone Idea Ltd., the country\xe2\x80\x99s leading telecom operator, today announced its partnership with Nokia to roll out software-defined networking in a wide area network (SD-WAN) services for start-ups and enterprises. Through SD-WAN deployment, VIBS will offer advanced networking and connectivity solutions and enable enterprises to dramatically increase the speed of deployment, flexibility, and control.'
Apart from the product lifecycle management system by Birlasoft, Invacare will also benefit from a new e-commerce portal to market its products, spares and supplies.'
Institutional mechanisms have played an important role in determining how cities have coped with the provision of infrastructure \xe2\x80\x93 especially with regards to water supply. The state has long been entrusted with the responsibility of actual provision of services as a \xe2\x80\x98public good\xe2\x80\x99 \xe2\x80\x93 to be offered on a best effort, but largely unaccounted for basis, i.e. as part of a social contract. As a result, State Government entities \xe2\x80\x93 such as Public Health Engineering Departments, Water Supply & Sewerage/ Drainage Boards held primary sway over-provision of services, and in very large cities, municipal bodies themselves were assigned the actual responsibility for the provision of services.'
The G20 Global Smart Cities Alliance on Technology Governance will create global norms and policy standards for the use of connected devices in public spaces, a WEF release said.'
b"India's Minister for IT, Communication, and Electronics, Ravi Shankar Prasad, revealed the new digital profile of India at India Mobile Congress in New Delhi."
\xe2\x80\x98IoT plays an important role in controlling our existing electrical components and electronics in an intelligent manner. An IoT enabled AC can maintain an optimum temperature by turning itself on or off to save immense energy\xe2\x80\x9d, assures Dhaval Doshi, Founder & Director, SmartHome NX. Excerpts below:'
No Indian state has so far managed to bring down its air pollution levels either to or below the WHO\xe2\x80\x99s limits. On average, people in India have their life expectancy cut short by 5.3 years because of air pollution. In two districts of Delhi, life expectancy is reduced by 12 years, which is the greatest reduction of life expectancy due to air pollution anywhere in the world.'
The appointments committee of the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the empanelment of 41 officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) as a secretary or equivalent to the secretary to the Government of India.'
The Tamil Nadu state government today transferred a host of IAS officers across departments. Details below:'
\xe2\x80\x9cDimension Data manages multivendor collaboration solutions including voice, video, messaging, presence, and conferencing with on-premise, hosted, cloud, or hybrid deployment models. Data is in resonance with the vision of Digital India that aims to transform the country into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.   It would ensure that government services are available to citizens electronically. It would also bring in public accountability through mandated delivery of government\xe2\x80\x99s services electronically\xe2\x80\x9d, said Lux Rao, Director & Leader Solutions, NTT Ltd. in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld'
\xe2\x80\x9cMost of our businesses are outside India. However, we will be on the lookout for opportunities.  While the major airlines might look for enhancing its presence in the country, new regional players are likely to set shop under the Udan scheme of the Government of India. Against this backdrop, IBS is the technology provider best placed to serve as a one-stop shop to the India aviation industry, both on account of its range of offerings and the \xe2\x80\x98Make in India\xe2\x80\x99 off-set initiative of the Government\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted V K Mathews, Founder and Executive Chairman, IBS Software in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld. Excerpts below:'
b"UST Global, a leading digital transformation solutions company, announced today, that it has been certified as the \xe2\x80\x98The Great Place to Work\xe2\x80\x99 among the other reputed workplaces in India for 2019-'20. The company is honored with the recognition for its positive work environment and employee experience by \xe2\x80\x98Great Place to Work\xe2\x80\x99 \xc2\xae (GPTW), a global authority on workplace culture assessment."
Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) today announced a new Joint Venture, IntelliSmart Infrastructure Private Limited (\xe2\x80\x9cIntelliSmart\xe2\x80\x9d), to implement, finance and operate the smart meter roll-out program of power distribution companies.'
New data protection storage appliances and enhancements to data management software and cyber recovery protect and manage data from edge to core to cloud.'
Smart grids are an increasingly popular solution to the twin challenges of growing urbanization and digitization. Dr Uma Rajarathnam, Global Head of Applied Research and Collaboration at Enzen, explores their role within the changing energy landscape, and why Artificial Intelligence (AI) will play an integral part in the next smart energy revolution.'
b"Digital payment, one of the key features of the government's 'Digital India' initiative and online payment platforms and services have indeed spread themselves in the country. However, its penetration and acceptance in the tier-II and tier-III cities still face some obstacles, market players said."
b"The ministry also plans to install CCTV cameras at stations besides 5000 WiFi hotspots, as per last year's plans to equip all stations with WiFi."
Local device testing and the ability to pretest devices with the LoRaWAN Certification Test Tool make device certification faster and more cost-effective.'
In lines with the company\xe2\x80\x99s commitment to \xe2\x80\x9cMake in India for a Safer India\xe2\x80\x9d, with a total investment commitment of Rs 500 crores, the plant will fulfill over 35% of the domestic market demand on a monthly basis. Dr. VK Saraswat (Member, Niti Aayog) and Dr Neeraj Sinha (Adviser, Science & Technology) inaugurated the facility.'
The trends have started unfolding and shaping up well. It\xe2\x80\x99s time to pick your favorite.'
b"\xe2\x80\x9cKerala's strengths are its people. The State, and more importantly the country as a whole effort has benefited from their hard work, both here and abroad. The State brings in more remittance than any other Indian State. It is our priority to create enough jobs in our State itself for qualified and educated youth. In order to achieve\nthis goal, we are leveraging ICT and other fields that are capable of creating high-end jobs\xe2\x80\x9d, asserts Shri Pinarayi Vijayan, Chief Minister, and Government of Kerala in a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World. Excerpts below:"
The company is expecting a viability gap funding (VGF) from the Narendra Modi government, to make it penetrate into 2.5 lakh gram panchayats or village blocks in tandem with the ongoing BharatNet initiative.'
He added that the government in India is working towards improving the business environment in the country and the decision to cut corporate tax is a \xe2\x80\x9cpositive message\xe2\x80\x9d in this direction. He also noted that Indian youth is the largest user of the app economy, stating that India will soon overtake other nations to become the world\xe2\x80\x99s largest app user economy.'
The decision comes after the board of Securities and Exchange Board of India approved norms in this regard in August.'
Aurangabad Civic chief awarded for best SPV CEO for Smart City initiatives under various categories. he selection of the awardee comes after an online poll held on the website of Smart Cities Council India for the best smart city SPV CEO. Vinayak was awarded at Smart Urbanation Convention and Expo 2019, a forum organized in Bengaluru on last 25th September.'
28 global brands including Dimension Data, NTT Communications, Netmagic Solutions, NTT Security and Arkadin rebrand as NTT.'
BW Businessworld hosted Envision \xe2\x80\x93 Digital Transformation Conclave 2019 in Kovalam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala on 26th September 2019. Several industry leaders and key officials from the government of Kerala and other parts of the country besides industry thought leaders including the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan graced the mega gathering.'
Dell EMC PowerMax is the first storage system to ship Storage Class Memory powered by dual-port Intel\xc2\xae Optane\xe2\x84\xa2 SSDs as true persistent storage, designed to maximize performance and eliminate bottlenecks.NVMe over Fabric (NVMe-oF) is now available on Dell EMC PowerMax, achieving lower latency and significantly improved response times for resource-intensive applications. New VMware, Ansible and Kubernetes integrations address the industry\xe2\x80\x99s growing need for automation, allowing customers to easily manage complex infrastructure and support DevOps cycles with infrastructure as code. Dell Technologies Cloud Validated Designs for Dell EMC PowerMax offers more efficiency and flexibility in building hybrid cloud environments'
The partnership is for a pilot project in Ladakh that incorporates Visaka Industries\xe2\x80\x99 product, ATUM to build a solar battery house. The battery house, an innovative design by Sonam Wangchuk, uses indigenous materials for passive solar heating for buildings. The solar battery house coupled with ATUM will shelter the Soldiers of the Indian Army from the extreme Ladakhi winters.'
The new brand redefines the affordable housing segment. Inspired by the vision of our honorable Prime Ministers on \xe2\x80\x98Housing for All\xe2\x80\x99, Lodha Group is furthering the narrative and envisions Mumbai, the city of dreams to be built with \xe2\x80\x98High quality housing for every aspiring Mumbaikar\xe2\x80\x99.'
A sum of  Rs 175 crores has been set aside for the purpose of development of these seven corporations, including Gorakhpur, Ayodya.'
Department of Transport, Government of Kerala plans on launching one card for multiple uses to prioritize public transport.'
BW Businessworld hosted Envision \xe2\x80\x93 Digital Transformation Conclave 2019 in Kovalam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala on 26th September 2019. Several industry leaders and key officials from the government of Kerala, including the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan graced the event.'
Impacts lives of 3.25 lakh citizens via advanced technology for enhanced safety, smarter traffic control, sustainable environment, hygiene and more'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe hold a firm belief that there are complementary set of solutions, which start-ups bring on table for extension, submission and for supplementing our efforts to enhance the digital journey of our customers\xe2\x80\x9d, said an optimistic Lovneesh Chanana, VP, Digital Government, Asia Pacific & Japan, SAP India in an interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
With the growing focus on maintaining a healthy lifestyle, residents are now opting for houses that are closer to nature. In such a scenario concepts such as Biophilia, practical luxury, home automation, hybrid spaces, are gaining interest.'
The Government of Uttar Pradesh recently ordered transfers of 9 bureaucrats in a major administrative shuffle.'
The Government of Odisha, recently ordered and executed transfers for 17 key bureaucrats. Excerpts below:'
Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Pasighat Smart City is being prepared now, under the mission, in a bid to boost the cities renovation.'
b"The proposed norms would be presented for Sebi's board approval at a meeting scheduled later this month."
Leh, the headquarter of the newly formed Union Territory could be the next city to get the Smart City tag as per indications from the Central government, as the latter will soon roll out infrastructure and urban development projects to emphasis quick transformations.'
As a part of its commitment to boost the AI ecosystem in the country, Intel hosted in India its AI DevCamp for the second time.\nTo develop AI-ready talent in the country, Intel in India has trained more than 150,000 developers, students, and professors since 2017.\nAmong other customers and innovators, Intel has collaborated with Wipro Limited, National Instruments, AllGoVision and OutDU to power solutions based on Intel\xc2\xae AI technology'
Smart city projects, financial services, and transport sectors sit prominently on the radar of hackers'
Almost all the 100 cities enrolled as Smart City have submitted their self-assessments to the ministry and over Rs 13,000-crore worth of IT and digitisation tenders have been put out so far.'
Special focus with an allocated fund of INR 10 crores, earmarked to improve telecommunication connectivity in the tribal areas of Himachal Pradesh: said Rohan Thakur, Director IT, Government of Himachal Pradesh during a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
The major administrative decision came from the state government of Puducherry on Saturday last'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe have already found solution which is suitable for smart homes or green homes, so we got invited by the United Nations for presenting one of our solutions. We give such an affordable segment that India needs as in just 6 lakhs you can prepare a house as there is around 30%-40% of the people shifting to urban places\xe2\x80\x9d, asserts Vamsi Krishna Gaddam, Joint Managing Director, Visaka Industries in a conversation with Sakshi Madaan, of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
This attitude and mindset are also about expecting the kind of experience that digital natives such as Amazon, Uber, and Alibaba deliver. What Generation C, and \xe2\x80\x93 quite frankly \xe2\x80\x93 nearly all consumers expect is to have the digital native experience replicated by their service providers.'
A very large number of jobs have been created by telecom firms such as Jio, by the digital infrastructure push such as laying of over 200,000 km of fibre optic, by the various apps that are being developed and brought online and by the push on democratization of digital access, including hardware manufacturing, assures Jayjit Bhattacharya, President, Center for Digital Economic Policy Research during a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
In the crucial bureaucratic rejig, 1 IPS and 3 IAS Officers have been shifted out of Goa Administration.'
b"\xe2\x80\x9cWith the recent merger bringing on table the strengths of KPIT's IT businesses, particularly in SAP, Oracle, JD Edwards and other related areas of manufacturing, along with Birlasoft's existing core strengths in custom application development and maintenance in digital, sales force, data analytics and testing, combined with leading edge consulting capability. Birlasoft is now poised to deliver a much wider suite of capabilities\xe2\x80\x9d asserts an optimistic Sangram Kadam, Vice President and Head (APAC and META), Birlasoft in a tete-a-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:"
\xe2\x80\x9cMerkado is created with an objective to enable solution providers and start-ups and customers to provide Right Solution to Right Problem. In short, Merkado is a bridge connecting Solution Seeker with Solution provider\xe2\x80\x9d, says Ravinder Pal Singh, CEO, Merkado RHA, in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
With an exponential surge in internet consumption, the Internet of Things(IoT) is taking the world by storm. A significant number of enterprises and consumers have already migrated to IoT citing its potential benefits in the coming years both involving user convenience and business benefits.'
\xe2\x80\x9cAutomation Anywhere\xe2\x80\x99s vision is to create a digital workforce where human beings are assisted by bots, thus augmenting the true potential of the workforce.  We aim to liberate employees from mundane, repetitive tasks, thus allowing them more time to use their intellect and creativity to solve higher-order business challenges\xe2\x80\x9d, shares Milan Seth, EVP- IMEA, Automation Anywhere in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
Of the 33 new Joint Secretaries appointed, 7 are IAS officers.'
The step has proven to be a measure to empower local candidates, by reserving 75 percent of local jobs for them.'
About 100 bureaucrats transferred by Andhra Pradesh government last Saturday. Details below.'
\xe2\x80\x9cTamil Nadu government already notified Chennai Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (CUMTA), to co-ordinate with public transportation modes and the goal is to move to higher percentage of population adopting it. Basically, for a life in an advanced country the road needs to be designed as one package, inclusive of concerns of citizens across all levels. we emphasize that the look and feel of the roads are to ensure comfort for all both pedestrians and wheel-chair bound\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an optimistic Raj Cherubal, CEO, Chennai Smart City Limited. In a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty, BW SmartCities World, he unveils the SPV\xe2\x80\x99s plans to groom  Chennai as a city par excellence.'
\xe2\x80\x9c\xe2\x80\x98Driving innovation\xe2\x80\x99 is our key priority with our R&amp;D teams continuously developing new and enhanced technological solutions to help our customers smoothly embrace this change. For example, with our commitment to ingrain these emerging technologies into our solutions, we launched new solutions in our industry-leading server and storage solutions that were enabled with AI and ML. This will help our customers to turn data into intelligent insights in real-time, helping them deliver better business outcomes\xe2\x80\x9d, asserts Alok Ohrie, President and Managing Director, Dell Technologies, India in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below'
Witnessing a record low solar tariffs of \xe2\x82\xb92.44 per unit, India slated 100GW of clean energy from solar projects of the targeted 175GW of clean energy capacity by 2022.'
In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government on Wednesday transferred eight IAS and 25 HCS officers with immediate effect.'
In a major administrative rejig, the government has transferred one secretary and six additional secretary-level officials.'
Coimbatore appears to be topping the chart, in comparison to other cities in the state, with regards to Smart City implementation.'
In a bid to welcome Electric vehicles in the country, the Government invited bids for over 1000 charging stations across places, notified as smart cities.'
In a bid to welcome Electric vehicles in the country, the Government invited bids for over 1000 charging stations across places, notified as smart cities.'
Last year the Bureau of Energy Efficiency had announced that citizens must endeavor to keep their air conditioners at 24\xc2\xb0C to help improve the environmental condition. It further mentioned that by utilising such measures, the overall potential for energy conservation could be an estimated 20 billion units annually.'
Successful organizations are those who are smartly leveraging new technologies for their sales enablement efforts to exponentially power up their sales journey'
b"There is some progress in some cities slated to be upgraded to the 'Smart City' status. But much more is required."
\xe2\x80\x9cAs a system integrator, we integrate various IT initiatives and implement all hardware, software and field-level implementation required for each smart city. Each city is unique and hence the solution and implementation should be customized so that the citizens would be able to take advantage of the smart city initiative. Madras Security Printers brings on their expertise to develop such model cities for citizen\xe2\x80\x99s usage,\xe2\x80\x9d asserted Arul Prathan Singh, Director Madras Security Printers in interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World.'
In a major administrative decision, NDMC Chairman named Chief Secretary of Arunachal Pradesh among other bureaucratic shuffles. Excerpts:'
The major decision of reposting 26 IAS officers is announced by Devendra Fadnavis led Maharashtra Government.'
In a major bureaucratic rejig announced by Yogi Adityanath led Uttar Pradesh government, several IAS officers transferred. Details Below:'
Pimpri Chinchwad city, an urban agglomeration of Pune city has scored superior developments in the past few years and is betting on visionary planning that would hold true for the coming 30 years.'
TN state government takes on Blockchain technology to ease out citizen-centric delivery services.'
b"PM Modi\xe2\x80\x99s 'Nal se Jal' scheme aims to provide piped water connection to every household by 2024. An amount of \xe2\x82\xb928,261.59 crore is earmarked for the scheme by Jal Shakti Ministry"
The Smart India Hackathon, 2019 provides a platform to tech-aspirants for generating solutions to challenges of city life through product innovation and inculcate a mindset of problem-solving.'
Purwar, is entrusted with the charges of CMD, BSNL, for five years term, according to an order issued by the Personnel Ministry.'
The State government in Madhya Pradesh recently ordered transfers of key government officials in the state. Details follow:'
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has agreed to extend financial incentives to city Urban Local Bodies for issuing municipal bonds for the year 2019-20 also.'
The book, challenges the existing norms and is an almanac for growth in today\xe2\x80\x99s hyper-competitive business world.'
The international dialogue discussed renewable energy as a viable tool for clean energy transition and advancing of electric mobility in cities by addressing policy challenges. TERI and Messe Munchen India to host environmental technology trade fair in co-location with WSDS 2020 in New Delhi'
\xe2\x80\x9cAs a global leader in Precision Agriculture, Trimble is committed to making technology affordable and accessible to Indian farmers so that they can grow more with lower input costs\xe2\x80\x9d, said Rajan Aiyer, Managing Director, Trimble India & SAARC in interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Smart Cities. Excerpts below:'
Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System corridor\xe2\x80\x99s Sarai Kale Khan Station in New Delhi will act as a mega transit hub connected with multi-model integration as the three imperative RRTS corridors, Delhi-Meerut, Delhi-Alwar, and Delhi-Panipat will converge at the station.'
The government of Kerala has appointed new collectors in six districts including Ernakulam, Kannur, and Thiruvananthapuram.'
As per the minutes of Niti Aayog meeting which has categorically warned against the firm that has China links. There are concerns about illegal hacking and leaking of data to the Chinese government.'
Leveraging emerging technologies we have already implemented a few innovations like the Self-Inspection video feature for renewing lapsed motor insurance, while new projects in the pipeline include Self Cashless Claims feature, asserts Jayant Chauhan, Chief Product Officer, Policybazaar.com.'
In a major decision announced on Wednesday night, 4 IAS officers in Uttar Pradesh transferred after the CBI investigation of Sand Mining scam in the state.'
The state budget presented by the Rajasthan CM earlier declared Rs 1000 crore funds for farmer\xe2\x80\x99s welfare & Rs 5200 crore feeder for uninterrupted power supply to farmers.'
India\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission faces hurdles similar to other such global missions. The Mission will benefit hugely under the NDA Government\xe2\x80\x99s second term.  A human-centric approach to develop smart cities, innovative financial solutions to attract the private sector and the elimination of bureaucratic bottlenecks will lead to Mission\xe2\x80\x99s success. The real estate sector can play a key role in making smart cities work for their residents, says new research from JLL.'
\xe2\x80\x9cHitachi in India has envisioned this direction in collaboration with the stakeholders, bringing its rich global industrial heritage and juxtaposing it with its strength in Information Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) in order to transform the urban-economic scenario of the country\xe2\x80\x9d, stated Bharat Kaushal, Managing Director, Hitachi India in an interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld. Excerpts below:'
In an official statement issued by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, the authority emphasizes that \xe2\x80\x9cevery city must initiate action to revive at least one water body during Jal Shakti Abhiyan.\xe2\x80\x9d'
Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar led government has proposed an order for 20 IAS officers transfer.'
The Indian market is gradually maturing towards adopting cutting-edge IT solutions, and technologies as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning is here to stay and evolve. There are several applications which involves such technologies finds usage in the fields of camera vision, facial recognition and object identification, augmented analytics with the help of trends and behavioral patterns and predictive modelling, will find their way and exist in the long run, in several government pet policies, asserted Anuj Mathur, CEO, Q3 Technologies in a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities. Excerpts below:'
In a major administrative order in the Jammu & Kashmir state, several IAS and KAS officers rejigged.'
In a major industrial movement, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), India\xe2\x80\x99s largest private sector company and the world\xe2\x80\x99s biggest integrated polyester producer, has got into a pact with Turkey\xe2\x80\x99s textile behemoth, K\xc4\xb1van\xc3\xa7 Tekstil, to manufacture and market R|Elan\xe2\x84\xa2 GreenGold, a sustainable and innovative fabric 2.0, to leading apparel brands and consumers across the world.'
In a major bureaucratic reshuffle by the Government of Rajasthan, 10 IAS officers are transferred in various departments of the state government'
b"The NDA led Government's union budget aims to popularise infrastructure and foreign investment, besides adding more power to women."
As the fastest growing economy, India provides significant challenges across industries and society, which emerge as opportunities that start-ups today identify and fulfil. The variety of use-cases which these opportunities offer help start-ups develop robust solutions iteratively with the option to adapt to any global economy. In an interaction with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCitiesWorld, Avnish Sabhrawal, Managing Director, Accenture Ventures and Open Innovation reveals, how the combining effects of new technologies is causing a major disruption of start-up industry. Excerpts below:'
In a major bureaucratic rejig announced by the Government of Haryana, Keshni Anand Arora has been announced the new Chief Secretary of the state, besides a few more reshuffles in the recent past.'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe should also expect the mass integration of IoT devices and Machine Learning technologies. At present, the Next Generation Technologies are not making as big impact in the Government to Consumers arena as we are still on the rudimentary stage. However, we should be expecting a great change as more and more players are entering the Indian market in multiple business verticals, and this will promote rapid expansion and up gradation of technologies\xe2\x80\x9d, asserted an optimistic Piyush Somani, CEO and CMD ESDS Software Pvt. Ltd. in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty. Excerpts below:'
Standing firm on their mission of providing clean and pure drinking water, Pi-Lo Shudh Pani Seva Foundation, a non-for profit organization on Sunday successfully inaugurated a portable sewage treatment plant (STP) at Parmarth Ashram, Rishikesh, Uttarakhand. The Sewage treatment plant was inaugurated by Uttarakhand Chief Minister; Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat along with his full cabinet and Pujya Swami Chidanand SaraswatiJi, President,  Parmarth Niketan Ashram.'
While the world is changing over to giving users the experience and convenience of availing anything at the click a button \xe2\x80\x93 real estate is surely catching up in an exciting way. While Names like REALAR which is experimenting on Augmented Realty or others like Sage Spaces giving 360 perspectives of real estate. Many developers are combining Virtual Realty Imaging and Augmented Realty to give real-life experience to prospective customers.'
Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation has been prioritizing the inclusiveness of its people involved across the level to have bagged Silver Award from the International Royal Society for The Prevention Of Accidents (RoSPA) for Phase I (North-South Corridor), says Keshav Kumar, Managing Director, Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation. Read on to know more about LMRC\xe2\x80\x99s strategic approach in mastering the holistic development of Smart Cities, the Metro way. Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World writes:'
While industry stakeholders have been playing a pivotal role in rolling out India\xe2\x80\x99s top-most smart and sustainable cities, many of them are banking on digital platform and its mechanism to create the most efficient and inclusive cities. In a conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World, Gautam Balakrishnan, Vice President, Smart Cities Business, Tata Projects Limited emphasizes: \xe2\x80\x9cThe approach of the government to bring cities on digital platforms is perfect. as cities grow in size, population and challenges - there is a need to bring all the command and control including disaster management and emergency response under one umbrella. This initiative is to be lauded and supported but taking too long to rollout. \xe2\x80\x9c Excerpts below'
b"As Goa embraces India's first Electric Vehicle Initiatives, the tourism sector in the state witnesses a surge. Samarth Kholkar, CEO and Co-founder, explains the idea behind the initiative."
The Urban Development department of the state has strategized plans to monitor this regions minutely to cut the menace of littering, banning plastic usage and waste management, based on which and several others, Karnataka has improved drastically in Swachha Sarvekshan ranking by Government of India. Elaborating further, Anjum Parvez, Principal Secretary, Urban Development Department, Government of Karnataka states: \xe2\x80\x9cCleanliness is much more than a mission. It\xe2\x80\x99s more of a mind-set that we had to inculcate within our citizens, who themselves reject using plastic bags and promote other several mandates that the state government department owns and adopt. Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World writes excerpts:'
b"J K Dadoo writes why India's smart city focus can't be lost by for any reason. It has to become even more target based & time bound as we threaten to become the most populous country in less than 2 decades."
As we are on the cusp of an augmented age where technology is redefining the possibilities of what a human can truly be capable of. Sensors, networks, Artificial intelligence, Robotics, digital manufacturing, Nanomaterial, 3DPrinting, Augmented reality, Machine Learning and Big Data are rewriting the rules in Lighting Industry, writes Devashish Ganguly, GM Havell\xe2\x80\x99s India.'
In a major administrative rejig, West Bengal Chief Minister ordered transfers of a host of IAS and IPS officers in the state.'
While the future of Smart Lighting lies in Connected Lighting, Vivek Jain, General Manager of Marketing- Public Urban, Smart Cities, South Asia, Signify brings in his perspective how lighting will be so much of a data-driven concept by the time it is 2030; meeting both sustainability target and cost-effective aspect.'
The city ranked 13th in the Global Smart Cities envisaging unique parameters like child-friendliness and inclusiveness of all ULB\xe2\x80\x99s in its territory. \xe2\x80\x9cThe Bhubaneswar\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Proposal mainly revolves around people of Bhubaneswar and not just focuses on the physical (infra) development of the city. We believe this is a key differentiator from rest of the cities, that we keep people at the center of the development and build the projects that are most essential to the people\xe2\x80\x9d, says Vineel Krishna, CEO, Bhubaneshwar Smart Cities Limited in conversation with Poulami Chakraborty of BW SmartCities World.'
The CO2 emission per capita in India is low compared to the world average. Transport sector is one of the major contributors to CO2 emission. In India the emission from transport sector is growing gradually and particularly impacting the Cities including having negative impact on health due to air pollution, congestion resulting in increased travel time of city dwellers, accidents, and impact on city\xe2\x80\x99s economy. The GHG emission from transport can be reduced only by promoting sustainable urban transport.'
The Mission is proving to be a game-changer with regards to not only directly improving citizens\xe2\x80\x99 life, but also contributing to transforming the country into a digitally empowered society and a knowledge economy. It is setting a template for future development, establishing new institutions, concepts and developing institutional and professional capacity to make Indian cities cater to citizens needs in the best possible way.  In a tete-e-tete with Poulami Chakraborty of BW Businessworld, Kunal Kumar, Joint Secretary and Mission Director Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, Government of India, asserted how the smart cities mission is impacting citizens life directly, for the better. Excerpts below:'
Water is one of the basic components that promotes life on Earth, yet a multitude of factors has created enormous stress on the availability of freshwater across the globe. This crisis has reached such dire levels that the World Economic Forum in its 2019 Global Risks Report, lists water scarcity among the largest global risks in terms of potential impact over the next decade.'
Indian cities, which presently house 30 percent of country\xe2\x80\x99s population, are expected to welcome around 300 million new urban residents, a size equivalent to the population of United States, by 2050. Taking into account the geographical terrain, rapid expansions and the economic growth; India, unlike the developed countries of the world, is one of the few countries which is a great Greenfield site for developing the futuristic smart cities. While Smart Grid will act as the backbone of the smart cities project, Smart Meters will be the building blocks for the same.'
Recent climate changes have had widespread impacts on human and natural systems. The atmosphere and oceans have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, and sea level has risen.'
b"Sources said Anoop Mittal's term came to an end on March 31, 2019, and he was entitled for an extension till he attained superannuation age of 60 years in January 2020 but the government refused to extend his services."
In the world of typical warfare of using cannons and guns, nuclear weapon changed the style of warfare and impacted the results to the greatest of extents.'
With Big Data, existing fragmented and isolated data sets can be studied from an overarching perspective to provide effective solutions to common problems that affect rapidly growing cities today.'
Like any other archaic model, the retail sector could benefit by incorporating some new and developing technologies to transform the customer\xe2\x80\x99s shopping experience.'
Three interesting factors by which the world building of cities can be analysed are technology, resources, and politics.'
Technology has transformed human lives to the greatest extent in the past century and has kept humans adept and smarter as the day progresses. Let us have a look at few recent technological innovations which are not popular yet.'
Artificial trees, in its proposed form, has the potential to save the Earth from an impending disaster that is due in the form of aggressive climate change. Expecting the output of greenhouse gases by humans would decrease is more of a Utopian dream floated by politicians to calm down people.'
From the essentials to the advanced, AI is set to bring about a change to way we live and breathe over the coming years. Let us look at 10 industries that are going to have a revolution in their businesses.'
With the advancements being made in the technological arenas that affect filmmaking, predicting the future for the movie industry becomes more and more complex as time passes.'
It is necessary for the government to implement checks on citizen freedom in the interest of society as a whole. There are multiple examples in multiple countries at multiple points in time where the misuse of these freedoms has led to untoward incidents and disruption of general law and order.'
Technological advancements should in no way curb our right to freedom with the help of its various components such as preferential algorithms and others. The right to freedom should be given to us despite influential components which rule the technological world.'
In smart cities, there are a number of jobs that are threatened by automation, most of which involve a large amount of human work. These job-holders must learn to adapt to new technologies, and in certain cases, might lose their jobs altogether.'
Project will lead to maximization of local consumption of Renewable Energy; support Demand Side Management & N-1 Supply through islanding capability of microgrid'
GE\xe2\x80\x99s Advanced Energy Management Systems (AEMS) will provide real-time data monitoring to better understand current and future energy usage and enable informed, proactive decisions about the transmission of renewable energy'
The regulation of daycares becomes especially important in a smart city where parents are usually out and working. These become the second homes for children which should be ensured to be the safest spot for learning and development.'
Digitization is an inevitability in the coming era of computers and smart cities. However, we need to embrace and go along with it, adapting to the different avenues it opens and the luxuries it offers. A crucial step in knowing and disseminating knowledge about the concept is removing misconceptions and getting more people invested in the idea.'
Employment has always been a prime concern of the population, and it is the responsibility of the government to do everything they can to encourage job growth.'
Technology has made it easy for information to literally fly to different parts of the world in no time.'
To completely digitize the economy, it is important to make legal changes in the law books that were made decades ago, when technology was not expected to enter the spheres of life it has.'
A lot of countries including the USA, Switzerland, and the Netherlands are considering autonomous vehicles seriously. However, there are two sides to this coin, especially insofar it pertains to the general public.'
Vehicles driving themselves can change transportation and logistics in ways unimaginable. Let us take a look at the technologies available to us:'
In the midst of hospital records being altered and federal systems being cracked into, it is more important than ever to learn to keep your digital footprint safe.'
One of the things smart homes do best is communicating with you. It is like living with someone.'
Using waste in a better manner through recycling adds another dimension to the waste. Several recycling technologies are being used such as converting the harmless waste into something useful.'
The gadget in our hand does amazing things and it will not be long until we are able to do great things with it. Let\xe2\x80\x99s go through the amazing things that you will be able to do with your phone:'
As nations plan to develop smart cities where interactions and transactions happen in a paperless environment, focus has also been made to provide consumer and end user products, providing smart services for the citizens of tomorrow.'
Smart traffic signals can communicate with smart cars or even send notifications to the commuters as to what would be the best route to take and where heavy traffic may occur.'
While planning a Smart City, it is very important to protect the ecosystem to prevent it from collapsing and affecting all life in the region including humans.'
The new-age schools and education system in Smart Cities would possess software-mediated, highly coded, and data-driven infrastructure, where students would learn through digital media.'
Smart City campaigns are based on the augmentation of the lifestyles of the citizens and residents. Any major inequality in lifestyle and resources will lead to major differences eugenically.'
Smart cities rely on effective planning of buildings, roads, shops, and industries to maximize throughput and minimize unnecessary overlaps. Predictive AI is a major asset in planning and executing these.'
Reduced emissions and clear air represent tangible gains that flow from a smart city project. Citizens that share commutes, travel in battery-powered vehicles, and use bicycles contribute significantly to lowered vehicular emissions, which directly results in gains in the quality of ambient air.'
The smart city concept emphasises the marriage of innovation and technology to make a city more environment-friendly while adding to the benefits of the residents.'
Cashless payments are an important feature of a smart city. Institutions across the spectrum are making efforts to build a sustainable cashless system.'
Smart offline stores will help in increasing and serving their customer base effectively. The use of sensors, cloud computing, data analytics, artificial intelligence helps in giving the customer a tailor-made experience.'
Although creating smart cities involves numerous techniques, ensuring their effective application is pertinent.'
The embodiment of the Internet of Things (IoT) and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has effectuated the concept of smart cities to a larger extent.'
Modern information and communication technologies are powering IoT operations inside smart city landscapes.'
The overarching motifs that define a smart city solution include higher levels of urban planning, the pervasive use of digital platforms and technologies, equitable municipal participation, and incremental operational efficiencies.'
Modern mesh networking technologies are empowering urban planners to deploy high-resolution cameras to gather real-time data in the form of images, video, and sounds.'
A smart city has many built-in features that can be leveraged in the traffic surveillance system. This will help prevent gridlocks, and ensure faster, smoother, and more efficient traffic in the whole city for all kinds of vehicles.'
Devices in the IoT include vehicles, home appliances, electric meters, certain parts of industrial installations, security systems, thermostats, electronic appliances, alarm clocks, speaker systems, vending machines, etc. These are variously equipped with sensors, software, actuators, and other electronic components that animate the core functions of the IoT.'
By unlocking the power of digitization and technology, we can make our cities more sustainable and functional.'
There should be a systematic segregation of residential from commercial areas in a smart city. Residential spaces should ideally be peaceful with selected recreational areas.'
Smart cities require software architects, designers, software developers with ML programming skills, solution integrators, testers, researchers in the health and entertainment sector, and customer support teams.'
The building of a smart city requires large investments by the government. Nonetheless, it is one of the best changes possible in lifestyles if done with conscious implementation.'
A smart city could be a secure home for future generations if executed correctly. This means that spreading awareness and educating people about the implications and technologies in these cities is an important part of moving into the future.'
To avoid fallout of government functionality, the government should take serious steps towards digital privacy and data security of citizens. Interaction methods between citizens and the government, as well as an agreement to transparency and cooperation is critical to maintaining security and efficiency in government management of citizens.'
Technology has helped us to find where we can progress. As a tool, it has also influenced the lives of people to a great extent.'
According to the Smart City Index, one of the best parameters to determine if a city is a smart city is to check the transport and mobility parameter.'
Recreational centres, fitness clubs, playgrounds, and running tracks are essential for providing the city residents with a high-quality and healthy life, especially in light of the increasing cases of lifestyle diseases.'
In the era of \xe2\x80\x98all things smart and digital\xe2\x80\x99 like smartphones and smart TVs, \xe2\x80\x98smart cities\xe2\x80\x99 is a new entrant. Just like a smartphone brings the entire world to our fingertips, a smart city incorporates state-of-the-art technologies to upgrade the quality of life for an entire city.'
A smart city can level up residential areas by ensuring the fair distribution of common public service entities such as a grocery or medical store, and making speedy provisions for areas that are lacking in them.'
A smart city should feature a highway and roadway system that connects formerly remote parts of the city \xe2\x80\x93 allowing people of all economic backgrounds to commute between their homes and public institutions such as hospitals, schools, and banks with ease.'
City-dwellers are in constant touch with the environment, and needless to say \xe2\x80\x93 these numerous interactions must be healthy and consistently positive.'
Energy efficient buildings powered by solar energy, water treatment plants, and composting facilities must be designed to reduce the city\xe2\x80\x99s carbon footprint.'
According to the Central Pollution Board of India, 1.28 lakh tons of solid waste was generated every day in 2012, out of which only 70% was collected and 12.5% processed or treated.'
Cities in India are gradually accepting their difference and uniqueness and celebrating this as diversity. The global tourism industry is increasingly intrigued by exotic and undiscovered places and attendant cultural experiences.'
Smart City models include proper sanitation and cleanliness, better connectivity and technological overhaul in the cities and also implementing technology into the various services that we enjoy as a part of being a citizen.'
According to reports, about 100 million people have been affected by Smart City projects so far. A total of 2.03 lakh crores worth of projects have been proposed by the 99 cities which would cover around 4500 projects in total.'
A Smart City will be the face of the country when it comes to global participation in effective governance models.'
Jindal Stainless is keen to bid and support Railways in this venture'
Citizens must be made aware of the smart services and solutions they will receive and how it will play a crucial role for them to make proper and efficient use of what is being offered to them.'
Smart cities will promote the use of technology, information and data to enhance and improve its infrastructure and services. This includes access to resources like water and electricity. Providing homes that are affordable to all, provision of proper education and health services, and increase IT connectivity.'
Smart experiments are underway in the urban mobility sector that is adopting the latest technologies and applications like never'
INTERNATIONAL SWACHH FEDERATION launched as a joint initiative of UN Global Compact Network India & Aquakraft\xe2\x80\x99s SWACHHAGRAHA commemorating the 150th birth centenary of MAHATMA GANDHIji. Plastic Free Mumbai launched by Aquakraft & AHAR Association of Hotels & Restaurant Owners (AHAR) by implementing GREEN aquatm\xe2\x80\x99s \xe2\x80\x93 Water ATMs at over 1000 locations across Mumbai city.'
Smart cities have emerged as a potential job creator in the past few months. Many new-age profiles are likely to witness potential growth especially in the areas of ICT (Information Communication Technology), Data Management & Analytics and e-Governance.'
Despite all the optimism around cloud services there is still a long way to go. Several measures are being taken into account to create a favourable environment for the proliferation of cloud services in India.'
Working closely with the Government for improving the landscape of the cities, Signpost, an out of home advertising company pioneers in developing facilities for citizens such as Bus Q Shelters, toilets and smart pedestrian skywalks with escalators at zero cost to civic bodies. In an interview with Manali jaggi of BW SmartCities, Shripad Ashtekar, Managing Partner, Signpost India talks about the green initiatives of the company and its focus on technology when it comes to the company\xe2\x80\x99s business approach.'
Smart cities hold the promise to potentially make urban areas not just more efficient and secure, but also more healthy.'
In addition to safeguarding the environment, a sustainable industrial estate supports individual industries housed within the estate with high performance workplaces, to enable industries to strive for efficiency and profitability.'
\xe2\x80\x9cIt is a great platform especially for women from India, out of India to explore the innate desire to be a carefree wanderlust." Shabir Momin, MD & CTO, Zenga TV said.'
Better safe than sorry, this adage holds true, especially in today\xe2\x80\x99s day and age. Technology has to a great extent helped authorities ensure safe and secure cities. The way our security industry has evolved significantly over the last decade is proof enough that its demand is only going to increase in future. In a candid chat with Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Abhishek Kumar, Regional Director, South Asia, Oncam talks about the present day scenario of surveillance industry in India and the company\xe2\x80\x99s objective to help create modern and scalable solutions for our cities.'
Smart solutions for smart cities inevitably means clean and green energy and the shift towards it needs to be understood and implemented well. With urban hubs set to decide the future, forward-thinking smart cities are looking to redefine their energy mix and distribution systems. Thrusting upon it, Dalip Sharma, Managing Director, Delta Electronics India talks to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities about smart and emerging energy concepts and their role in ensuring cleaner and leaner cities of tomorrow. Edited Excerpts:-'
Some ambitious infrastructure projects in the pipeline include the Marine Drive 2.0, Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL), Navi Mumbai airport, Metro Rail etc. which will not only change the skyline of the city but also give a lift to Mumbaikars\xe2\x80\x99 liveability quotient.'
China for example, where all urban land is owned by the local / city Government. Consequently, land monetization was one of the main sources of financing for Chinese cities during the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) development phase of the eighties.'
Prama Hikvision, an Indo-China venture between Prama and security and surveillance products manufacturer Hangzhou Hikvision Digital technology has placed its bets big on India\xe2\x80\x99s growth story especially the Government\xe2\x80\x99s Smart Cities Mission. In an exclusive chat with Manish Arora of BW Smart Cities, Ashish P. Dhakan, MD & CEO, Prama Hikvision India Pvt Ltd. talks about the entity\xe2\x80\x99s growth journey in India, its role in making cities smarter as well as insights on the overall security and surveillance segment.'
The Internet of Things (IoT), a key driver of smart cities is championing the unison of machines/things, people, volumes of data and processes worldwide in order to build cities that are efficient, economically viable and people friendly. WebNMS IoT, a division of Zoho Corporation is one such integrated IoT platform with multiple capabilities that cover energy management, remote site monitoring and vehicle tracking. In an interview with Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Karen Ravindranath, Program Head- WebNMS IOT talks about what the cities of today need in terms of systems and bringing about a connected digital transformation through IoT implementations.'
Urbanization is both a challenge and solution but, if ensured carefully, it can be the ultimate panacea to boost a nation\xe2\x80\x99s economic growth and addressing the challenges peculiar to cities at the same time. AECOM is one such global network of experts working to develop and implement innovative solutions to the world\xe2\x80\x99s most complex challenges. In a t\xc3\xaate-\xc3\xa0-t\xc3\xaate with Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Sean Chiao President, Asia Pacific, AECOM talks about its programme \xe2\x80\x9cImagine Delhi- Towards a clear sky\xe2\x80\x99 in association with Asia Society India Center as well as the challenges and solutions peculiar to world cities today. Edited Excerpts:'
Climate change is a big concern of 21st century and citizens, businesses as well as governments alike have begun to understand their responsibility towards mother earth. FMCG firm Nestl\xc3\xa9 India pledges its commitment towards environmentally sustainable business practices through all stages of production. In an exclusive interview with Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities, Sanjay Kajuria, Senior Vice-President- Corporate Affairs, Nestl\xc3\xa9 India talks about the company\xe2\x80\x99s allegiance towards finding improved solutions to reduce, recycle and recover that paves the way to a healthier environment. Edited excerpts:'
Although Government plays an essential role in addressing the road safety concerns, the involvement of private sector can further aid its efforts to make Indian roads safe and secure for citizens.'
After putting Pune as a model city on the forefront of the Government\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission, Kunal Kumar has embarked on the new role of Mission Director, Smart Cities, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India and is sparing no effort in making the mission a successful one. In an exclusive interview with Manish Arora of BW Smart Cities, Kumar talks about how the humble beginning has been made, the fundamental challenges and the role of technology in making the lives of citizens easy. Excerpts from the interview:-'
Today, most Indian college students (80 percent) live off campus, which poses a challenge for academic institutes \\ universities who want to blend academics with student life, and create more opportunities for students to collaborate and learn from each other.'
It is widely accepted that the main beneficiary of analytics has been the technology sector.  With it slowly pervading across multiple sectors, citizens are likely to experience the profound impact of analytics by having their lives more secure and simplified.'
Pilot launch in Delhi to cover Stations in Dwarka Sub-City on the Blue Line.'
Sign an MoU to Foster Growth of Indian Blockchain Ecosystem.'
Rethinking our cities to be gender sensitive is an extension to being an inclusive city that offers equal opportunities to all its citizens. A city that is good for children, elderly and woman is a great city for all.'
It is extremely important for Government (local, state and central) to recognize the tremendous potential of drones and their subsequent safe use and operation in their respective jurisdictions.'
For a smart industrial city to contribute to the growth of an economy, engaging with all the stakeholders is the key starting point. It requires administrators to think carefully about public-private partnerships, open data policies, citizen input and participation.'
Large-scale IoT-based water purification systems along with sustainable technologies have lately offered a ray of hope in the fight against the imminent water crisis. They are providing people an uninterrupted supply of potable drinking water through energy-efficient systems.'
Ecologically safe structure is not a luxury item but an urgent and immediate need in the realty landscape, this is only possible through education, policy level changes, working in unison but most importantly developing a sense of urgency to environmental conservation.'
Launch of Enerlytics portal spearheads company\xe2\x80\x99s innovation drive for energy sector'
The development of toll roads across India\xe2\x80\x99s cities and its highways opens up a new arena for technology disruption'
In a developing nation like India, which is abundant with its natural resources, Disruptive Innovation strikes the right balance on socio-economic aspects both at rural and urban fronts.'
Varanasi Nagar Nigam (VNN) selects the company for the project\xe2\x80\x94a Government of India initiative under the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) program. This was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on July 14, 2018.'
The upgraded app has been revamped with an array of new features such as information about the nearest metro station, feedback from passengers, information about the availability of shorter routes etc.'
India\xe2\x80\x99s corporates are ready to go all the way to support the transformation to clean energy in India, for their own benefit and that of the entire country.'
The time is ripe to create a detailed electric blueprint that will power, empower and enlighten the India of future.'
A distributed approach, wherein each city department takes up a smaller or less complex initiative aligned with the Smart City Mission, has helped kick-start projects across different areas and has achieved some success'
Once implemented by Trimble and its Chennai-based partner KKM SOFT, the project will be one of the first examples of digital real-time, condition-based monitoring rolled out by an Indian rail operator.'
Multiple reports have stated that in the next 5-7 years the smart city industry will witness a tremendous boom and the market is expected to reach a valuation of over $400 billion.'
Real estate industry stakeholders will need to understand emerging data sources and how they can capitalise on them to inform the development, construction and management of property assets.'
Greater efforts need to be channelized in the direction of crafting innovative communication campaigns educating the public about the benefits of a decentralized system which will go a long way in inducing a behavioral change among them and eliciting their cooperation for making Gurugram a clean and sustainable city.'
The Accelerator was launched at the YES BANK Annual Cleantech Conference 2018 by Praveen Kumar, Additional Secretary, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy.'
I am stressing on the need to inculcate a sense of cleanliness all around in the minds of school children as they hold the key to the future. A future transforming Aswaccha Bharat into A Swaccha Bharat.'
Solar is the most accessible form of renewable energy across India, with over 300 sunny days every year. The potential for solar energy generation, especially given India\xe2\x80\x99s conducive geographical position, is incredible.'
With a clear blueprint to tap on the tremendous potential India holds as a digitally-enabled smart nation, Ravinder Pal Singh, Director, Digital Cities & Mega Projects, Government Segment, Dell EMC Commercial believes in India\xe2\x80\x99s shinning story. Talking to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Singh elaborates on the company\xe2\x80\x99s collaboration with the Government under its Smart Cities Mission and the need for a solid digital foundation to unlock the true potential of technologies like IQT, IoT, AI and ML through proper planning and execution.'
Launches first of its kind centralized operations centre in Bhubaneswar with an investment of around Rs. 75 Crore, the biggest amongst all cities across India. Honeywell to provide and implement technology solutions to aid its smart city and surveillance goals.'
Social habits and culture play an important role in sustaining uniqueness of a city. Breaking old monuments to construct new shinning buildings is not an answer. It has a deep impact and can kill the identity of the city.'
Work on to make GST refund process fully automatic, FICCI GST Survey: 76 per cent respondents say GST had a positive impact on their business.'
Betting big on India\xe2\x80\x99s growth story, Egis, a France head-quartered engineering group eyes India as a big market holding a lot of promise. In conversation with Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Nicolas Jachiet, Chairman & CEO, Egis Group shares information about the group\xe2\x80\x99s prospects in the country, projects at hand and his foresight for India.'
IoT based smart water meters can play a critical role in intelligently measuring, monitoring and controlling water usage. Unlike a regular water meter, a smart water meter can measure consumption at a metering point and communicate to the central data servers, all in real time.'
Drones have several key technical advantages over classical aerial operations that makes them key to contribute to the sustainability of smart cities.'
Signs MoU for a smart city pilot at the institute\xe2\x80\x99s campus.'
Following the opening of its new office in Mumbai, Ras Al Khaimah Economic Zone (RAKEZ), UAE is the preferred investment destination for over 13,000 flourishing businesses with nearly 3,000 Indian companies operating out of it. Talking to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, HH Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saqr AL Qasimi, RAKEZ Chairman elaborated on India as an important market and zone\xe2\x80\x99s support to Indian investors wishing to set up their business in UAE.'
The social and cultural homogeneity of inner cities is transforming with erstwhile traditional occupations and enterprises fast vanishing together with the displacement of communities practising those occupations.'
Headquartered in Abu Dhabi, Aldar Properties PJSC is a leading real estate developer in UAE. On a recent trip to India as a part of a real estate delegation from Abu Dhabi, Maan Al Awlaqi, Executive Director Commercial, Aldar Properties PJSC spoke to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities about the company\xe2\x80\x99s role in shaping and enhancing the urban fabric of the UAE\xe2\x80\x99s capital city and the strong bond India and UAE share based on their cultural, religious and economic ties.'
A smart city relies heavily on its automotive, railway and transport (ART) sector. Having a high strength to weigh ratio and being resistant to impact and temperature shocks, stainless steel is an ideal choice for vehicle exhausts, bus bodies, fuel tanks, and railway coach and wagon bodies.'
In a renewable and distributed energy future, AI & ML can manage key aspects of the energy system, with human-oversight replacing human-intervention for the highest decision levels.'
To build resilience in Indian cities, we must promote responsive governance, participatory management, evidence-based and integrated planning and convergence in implementation.'
Puri said that the empowered committee had held its first meeting regarding the issues of home buyers in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas on June 25.'
Speaking at BW Businessworld Smart & Safe Cities Conclave in New Delhi recently, Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing & Urban Affairs said, \xe2\x80\x9cBuilding smart and safe is no longer a natural choice for us, it is an imperative. Urbanization in India is taking place at a very fast and worrying pace. There is no point in lamenting that pace because urbanization will take place. Already 65 per cent of our GDP comes from the urban spaces, more than 90 per cent of our tax returns come from urban areas. 17 per cent of Indian population was living in urban spaces in 1947, by 2030 we will have 600 million Indians living in urban spaces.\xe2\x80\x9d'
Resilient cities are the cities of today, tomorrow and future, but, the meaning of resilience is what needs to be understood in a whole new paradigm given the complexities surrounding the Indian cities. Talking about the recently announced initiative of 100 Resilient Cities (100 RC) by Rockfeller Foundation in collaboration with National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), Amit Prothi, Head of India National Strategy, 100RC talks to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities about what the term resilience truly constitutes and the need to convene a broad base of all stakeholders in building strong partnerships with an intent of driving the urban resilience agenda at the national and state level.'
Public WiFi is a springboard for the digital India story that is unfolding right here before us. Widespread Internet connectivity, growth in mobility, combined with India\xe2\x80\x99s technological prowess, will soon envelop the nation with a digital footprint:'
A social behavioural change led community movement, Satyagraha se Swacchagraha is an ambitious sanitation drive by the Central Government to bolster its Swachh Bharat Mission. Sensitising people in rural India about the importance of sanitation and cleanliness of their surroundings in day to day life, Parameswaran Iyer, Secretary, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation talks to Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities about this movement as more of a peoples\xe2\x80\x99 movement driven for them, by them and from them. Edited Excerpts:-'
The advances in Blockchain, Cloud Infrastructure, Geo-location services, Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence, Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) can provide fertile building blocks for the smart cities of future.'
GST has provided some cushion to under construction projects and marginally brought down prices for affordable housing owing to the input tax credits, but we are yet to see a significant impact in the mid-sized or luxury space.'
Headed for smart city mission, the public-private partnership (PPP) is critical among the possible business models. A successful PPP model needs a close coordination between state Governments, civic bodies and the private players.'
The day is not far when robots working on project sites will become a common occurrence. Drones- which are already in use to an extent, will constantly scan sites to collect data, predict and solve problems before they arise.'
It has been noted that to make a city smart, there\xe2\x80\x99s first a need to understand the behaviour of a city\xe2\x80\x99s assets: its citizens, economy and its environment, with the intent to make the ecosystem predictive and self sustainable.'
A group with $ 1.2 billion asset base, Hero Motors Company (HMC) is name to reckon with as being the world\xe2\x80\x99s largest manufacturer of bicycles with over 20 companies under its belt. Spearheading the next generation of Munjals, Aditya Munjal, Director, Hexi, a last-mile connectivity solutions provider/startup arm of HMC is upbeat about the bicycle market in India and shall pick-up pace gradually. In an interview with Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities, Aditya talks about a consumer driven strategy by introducing various new strategic initiatives which can be instrumental in developing a robust cycling infrastructure and providing economic mobility to the disadvantaged.'
A charismatic leader and a youth icon for many, Nara Lokesh, Cabinet Minister for Information Technology, Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, Andhra Pradesh has taken the state on an unprecedented developmental path. Taking to Chahat Jain and Manish Arora of BW Smart Cities, the minister talks about leveraging technology and supporting young entrepreneurs as a key to push the Government\xe2\x80\x99s development agenda and guarantee a quality life to the rural population.'
In an era of chaotic urbanisation in the country driven by \xe2\x80\x98impatient capital\xe2\x80\x99, Le Corbusier\xe2\x80\x99s Chandigarh is planned to a rational grid yet human scale. The \xe2\x80\x98City Beautiful\xe2\x80\x99 promises to  be both \xe2\x80\x98Green and  Smart\xe2\x80\x99.'
With the dawn of energy efficient technology, it is possible to move forward binding rapid development keeping the environment in mind.'
Based on the data we have had access to, with the expected migration to urban areas in the next 25 years, a city of one million people should be built each month in India.'
A stronger ambulance infrastructure embedded with technology is the need of the hour. Building a well-organized ambulance infrastructure with high quality, reliable services with trained staff requires lot of structured planning and quality control.'
Many existing cities of developed countries have begun to use IoT technologies to collect data on traffic, pollution, waste management systems, crisis response, and criminal activities to create data sets and run analytics to deploy their resources more efficiently and effectively.'
When it comes to source of financing, most of the smart city plans envisage around 70 per cent of the total outlay to be funded by the Central and State Government, either through the Smart City Mission or through convergence schemes like AMRUT, Swachh Bharat etc.'
The need of the hour is for an umbrella body on the lines of Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) to integrate public transport system and provide a single window ticketing mechanism for commuters.'
Surveillance technologies have an impact on all aspects of city dwelling. Security can also be enhanced considerably using smart surveillance.'
With innovation at the heart of its operations, network security solutions provider SonicWall has been preventing cybercrimes for over 25 years. In a candid interview with Chahat Jain of BW Smart Cities, Debasish Mukherjee, Country Manager India & SAARC how crucial digital infrastructure is in transforming the cities of future and the role of new age trends like IoT, cloud and machine learning in driving the growth of network security market.'
Implementation is the key to good governance. To get optimum results from technology, its optimum implementation is of course must.'
One of the country\xe2\x80\x99s reputed business groups, Pacific India is a notable name in the realty and infrastructure space in India with considerable presence in real estate, hospitality and education sector. With infrastructure being an indispensable part of our Government\xe2\x80\x99s agenda especially Smart Cities Mission, Abhishek Bansal, Executive Director, Pacific India talks to Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities about the important aspects of Smart Cities and the need for them to be inclusive with respect to sustenance.'
A combination of hardware and software systems will ensure security of the main data repository, which individual systems \xe2\x80\x93 IoT sensors, CCTV cameras, and so forth \xe2\x80\x93 will have to be designed in a manner to prevent misuse and hacking.'
Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Chennai and Vijayawada join the City Data for India Initiative, a collaboration of Tata Trusts and World Council on City Data'
Movement to help Centre and Delhi urban planners take informed decisions on infrastructure, urban mobility and traffic management.'
Over 300 million people in India still have no access to electricity, which is why solar power is being seen as a viable, long-term solution for clean energy.'
The Mission aims to undertake a complete urban transformation to meet the demands of more than 50% of the population which is expected to reside in cities by 2050.'
\xe2\x80\x9cThe City Control and Command Centre (C-4) is a mix of software and hardware platform that acts as a single central command and control location for managing traffic and utilities remotely. Delta Video Walls at the center will not only monitor utilities but will also provide real-time monitoring of security and surveillance. Operators can manage the city\xe2\x80\x99s growing population and infrastructure with this solution \xe2\x80\x93 with minimum effort and maximum efficiency,\xe2\x80\x9d commented Mr. Nilesh Purey, Vice President IT at GIFT City.'
The \xe2\x80\x98smart\xe2\x80\x99 city planning goes much beyond the infrastructure. Municipal bodies and planners work very closely through the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV).'
While autonomous and connected vehicles have opened a whole new world of opportunities, there are many concerns that need to be addressed before the automobile industry launches a fully functional and tested autonomous vehicle.'
The way to Smart Cities in India is for the Government to open and facilitate infrastructure, ease regulation for devices and create an open resource of public data that receives and provides information to and from local services.'
To continue this phenomenal growth and become a dominant player in the global solar industry, the industry and the Government need to come together to ensure a favourable innovative environment, focused on creating a sustainable future.'
While, it is true that a lot remains to be done to make the Smart Cities Mission a success, it can be safely said that India is making a genuine progress, albeit gradually, but efficiently.'
Mixed-use developments made a humble beginning in colonial Europe but have now become an indivisible part of suburban areas in major cities across the world.'
Given the rapid pace of expansion of entrepreneurial companies, Kharadi is quickly becoming the nerve center of the DNA that established Entrepreneurial Set-Ups.'
With the initial focus being on energy efficiency, public safety, and sustainability, the cities will soon graduate to build solutions around health, education, and system integration spanning all sectors.'
By investing in AI technology, water utilities can collect and correlate the real-time data from their water network to achieve real-time data-driven business efficiencies.'
By storing and analyzing data at the edge or in cloud, Indian and global cities are taking steps to become \xe2\x80\x98smart\xe2\x80\x99.'
b"Urbanisation is at the core of any city's transformation and real-estate plays a crucial role in the infrastructure development. Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd, the real and infrastructure development arm of the Mahindra Group is one of the leaders in this segment. Sangeeta Prasad, CEO, Mahindra Lifespaces talks to Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities about developing the cities with the ethos of \xe2\x80\x98Livelihood, Living and Life\xe2\x80\x99 and digital disruptions becoming the backbone of Smart Cities."
With the increased focus and access to internet, Smartphones and Mobile Apps are drastically shaping the reality around us. They are bringing in new experiences to us, defining convenience in another way and ushering a new era of \xe2\x80\x98Big Data\xe2\x80\x99 and \xe2\x80\x98Internet of Things\xe2\x80\x99 that not only has the potential to impact how we live but also how we work.'
As cities grow, a security infrastructure of sensors and cameras will decrease the risk of any threat, accidental or intentional. Such a system can run directly over the centrally managed street lighting grid, making the city a better place to live in.'
\xe2\x80\x9cPowered by technology like AI and machine learning, it makes every ride worth the experience\xe2\x80\x9d'
We need a RERA authority monitoring the process of statutory approvals. India ranks a very low 181 out of 189 countries in ease of getting construction permits. This is what frustrates developers rendering projects unviable.'
TRIMBLE SOLUTIONS India, a subsidiary of US-based Trimble Inc. recently launched its global railway solutions portfolio in India and is eying the Indian Railways market which it believes has a lot of potential. In an interview with Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities, Rajan Aiyer, Managing Director, Trimble, SAARC Region talks about the need to make Indian Railways safe, financially viable, environment friendly and the role of cutting edge technologies to help address various challenges the railways is facing today.'
He said that corporates have discipline, implementation capacity and the budgets for inculcating awareness among their employees and the public on the need for life-saving measures.'
PROTOTYPE BEING TESTED IN BENGALURU SMART CITY TO DEVELOP INTELLIGENT TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SOLUTION.\n\nNIGHT BAZAAR ENVISAGED AS PART OF JAIPUR SMART CITY.'
Addition of nearly 6,800 new units marks 127% increase over previous quarter.'
Small solar parks can be made an integral part of Smart Cities so as to fulfill any additional such requirements. Apart from rooftop solar, the solar energy can be harnessed in other forms like solar street lighting, solar water heaters, solar pumps, solar traffic signals, solar concentrators based cooking.'
Aspects of green building like providing good natural light, providing views of the outside, providing comfortable temperature and adequate fresh air ensure the occupants have a pleasant and productive space, which is in fact the "primary purpose" of any building.'
Founded in the year 1991, Cyient is a global provider of engineering, manufacturing, geospatial, network and operations management services to global industry leaders. The company believes strongly in streamlining its efficiency with seamless operations that encourage innovation and excellence in execution. In a candid interview with Manali of BW SmartCities, John Renard, President-Utilities & Geospatial BU, Cyient talks about the role of technologies like Geospatial mapping and IoT coupled with visualisation and analytics upping the smartness quotient of cities and his vision for India\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission.'
Developers with a vision who understand the significance of proper planning, design, and technology for developing a robust industrial park have explored ways to innovate and build futuristic industrial parks.'
Technology and solutions provider SAP has been a leader in business applications with a firm focus on its customers and world class innovations. In a tete-a-tete with Manali Jaggi of BW Smart Cities-Peter Selfridge, Global Head, Digital Government, SAP talks about the importance of Industry Government collaboration especially in a country like India where a program based approach and structure is the need of the hour.'
Developers in the process of evaluating the per unit benefit arising on account of GST implementation. Most of the say there was a minor reduction in prices on offer passing on the cost savings.'
The French ambassador\xe2\x80\x99s visit to Chandigarh was aimed at holding discussion with city officials about the Smart City Mission implementation and progress by the French Development Agency (AFD) and consider future projects.'
b"The Mantra of 3R- Reduce, Reuse and Recycle- is at the heart of any vision towards the sustainable development of mankind- Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message to the Eighth Regional 3R Forum."
Headed for smart city mission, the public-private partnership (PPP) is critical among the possible business models. A successful PPP model needs a close coordination between state governments, civic bodies and the private players.'
But is it enough? ANAROCK\xe2\x80\x99S latest real estate research report provides critical data and insights'
Smart gas meters will enable households and businesses to monitor their gas use more accurately in real-time, paving the way for greater operational efficiency for MGL'
Beijing Capital International Airport (BCIA) chooses SITA kiosks for Air China passengers'
Electricity being a major raw material for cold storages, with ample availability of roof space and bank finance at reasonable rates, makes solar energy a viable option for alternate energy source.'
GIFT (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City), an ambitious pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is India\xe2\x80\x99s first international financial services centre and seeks to compete with global financial hubs like London, New York, Singapore, Dubai and Hong Kong. The city has made considerable headway with several domestic and global companies setting shop here. In a tete-a-tete interview with Manali Jaggi of BW SmartCities, Ajay Pandey, MD & Group CEO, GIFT talks about the progress made on the projects in the city and the Government\xe2\x80\x99s impetus to this visionary venture.'
Ahmedabad Smart City has been working on various key projects like Integrated Command & Control Centre which has been rolled out for the better of citizens while the Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) & Janmitra App have also been launched.'
With a firm focus on making Gujarat a world class state, Gujarat Government is pushing ahead with its agenda of making the state a land of opportunities and an inclusive development taking everyone along in its quest to make Gujarat a model Smart State. In an exclusive interview with Annurag Batra, Chairman and\nEditor-in-Chief, BW Businessworld and Manish Arora, Associate Editor, BW Smart Cities, Vijay Rupani, Chief Minister, Gujarat, talks about his Government\xe2\x80\x99s initiatives taken so far and his planned vision on making Gujarat compete with the best cities in the world.'
Smart cities is not just about the creation of these hardwares and softwares or the analytics, it is about how the analytics can be used by the regular district administrations in making their functioning better.'
For a Smart City to be successful, adopting a sustainable mindset is as important as using smart technological innovations. Individuals will need to start adopting eco-friendly practices and products.'
Sulabh International is ready for the smart toilets as well, and we have made the first model, which is been approved by the Urban Development Ministry Of India.'
India already has the ecosystem in place. With bright startups, world class professionals, sizeable workforce, state-of-the-art R&amp;D labs, growing smartphone penetration, India has the potential to lead the world in making cities smarter.'
Technology being at the centre of our Government\xe2\x80\x99s Smart Cities Mission, safety and security have emerged as important aspects of the way cities function. Where technology has helped harness and optimise the management of urban resources, the protection of data and citizens alike has also emerged as crucial to ensure our people and businesses feel safe in cities'
On 23rd February 2018, BW Businessworld organized Smart Cities Conclave in Ahmedabad. Several industry leaders, international experts, and key officials from the Government of Gujarat, including the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Hon\xe2\x80\x99ble Vijay Rupani also attended the conclave'
Since environment has to be protected along while building smarter cities, it is important to keep in notice that WHO has said that top 10 polluted cities in the world are all Indian cities'
"People should be made aware about taking care of their surroundings by saving on energy consumption, water, not littering around and sanitation etc," said Ajay Girotra, MD, AG Dauters Waste Processing Pvt Ltd.'
\xe2\x80\x9cSmart Cities projects undertaken by us have been extremely challenging but we charted our own course and achieved a lot in a short span of three years. Safety and security of our citizens are paramount for us," said Mukesh Kumar, Commissioner, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation'
Puri had last month announced the commencement of the country\xe2\x80\x99s first-ever \xe2\x80\x98Liability Index\xe2\x80\x99 to rank 116 cities which include the identified Smart Cities and few more cities with a population of over 1 million.'
The Infrastructure and the service provision for the citizens is the focus of all service delivery initiatives. The ground work for these is already in place as, in almost all cities that are likely to be covered under the schemes like AMRUT and Smart Cities Mission.'
Every year, 1.25 million people are killed in road crashes and 90 per cent of deaths occur in the developing world. India is leading the global death toll by reporting 1,50,000 deaths each year. SaveLIFE Foundation (SLF) is an independent, non-profit organization working for the road safety and access to emergency medical care across India and abroad. Over the past few years, SLF has facilitated the enactment of key legislations in India such as the Good Samaritan Law and now has adopted one of India\xe2\x80\x99s deadliest highways to transform it into a zero-fatality corridor. Piyush Tewari, the founder and CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation shares his journey with Anuradha Shukla of BW Businessworld.'
RS.11,169 crore investment approved with central assistance of Rs.2,797 Crore. Haryana Gets 53,290 houses, Tamil Nadu-40,623, Karnataka-32,656, Gujarat-15,584, Maharashtra-12,123, Bihar-11,411, Kerala-9,461, Uttarakhand-6,226, Odisha-5,133'
Climate scientists are already warning us to anticipate 30% heavier rains in the future along with more extreme climate events. So we don\xe2\x80\x99t just have to prepare our cities to address current challenges but will have to develop plans & policies to address a future with extreme weather events.'
Introducing new eco-friendly products are the need of the hour in India. Compared to conventional processes, dust suppression solutions offer a set of distinct advantages and lucrative benefits, including easy application and long-life protection across extreme climatic conditions.'
The move has been taken to ensure lower borrowing rates, tax concessions & increased flow of foreign & private capital, said Minister of State of Housing & Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday..'
Going forward we would like the Government to look into pressing issues that have been highlighted by industry bodies at regular intervals. GST and stamp duty issues must be addressed at the earliest.'
Whether there will be on-ground action in renewal and development of cities, uptake of infrastructure funds, implementation of railway safety initiatives, or development of industrial corridors, in absence of a follow on mechanism, is yet to be seen.'
India due to its sheer size and vast population has a lot of scope for experimentation and improvement in the Smarter Energy management segment.'
Technology is a big enabler and core for any smart city to supplement its citizens\xe2\x80\x99 lifestyles whilst making a city more efficient and robust. Advanced technology can be leveraged to a city\xe2\x80\x99s utmost advantage creating an enabling environment for its Government, residents and authorities alike. Sudarshan Boosupalli, Country Head, India and SAARC, Ruckus Networks in a candid interview to Chahat Jain, BW SmartCities exemplifies the importance of a connected city that can create a vibrant community of connected stakeholders.'
b"Undri and Ambegaon, located in South Pune, are in the process of becoming Pune's next vibrant property boom areas over the next few years. More and more of Pune's home buyers now seek out residential destinations which still offer the unspoiled natural splendor and healthy environment which Pune was once famous for."
The scenario for smart cities in India is completely different from any other country. Urban areas deliver up to seventy per cent of India\xe2\x80\x99s GDP, and the population that is moving to urban areas is also growing significantly.'
City governance is a complex system. The governance framework at the city level must be in sync with the with the culture, heritage, economy, competitiveness and institutions. That is the reason just constituting special purpose vehicle is not enough for the success of the Smart Cities in India. D. Dhanuraj, Chairman of Centre for Public Policy Re-search (CPPR), a think tank dedicated to research on current economic, social, and political issues, in conversation with Chahat Jain of BW SmartCities talks about the city governance, the need for financial and administrative autonomy of the cities and the various transportation models, which are required for the success of Smart Cities in India. An edited excerpt:'
"I truly believe that the need and requirement of smart urban solutions, Government\xe2\x80\x99s thrust towards building smart cities and structured financing mechanisms will go a long way in making our cities sustainable, modern, attractive, reliable & technologically advanced."'
Founded in the year 1991, Cyient is a global provider of engineering, manufacturing, geospatial, network and operations management services to global industry leaders. The company believes strongly in streamlining its efficiency with seamless operations that encourage innovation and excellence in execution. In a candid interview with Manali of BW SmartCities, John Renard, President- Utilities & Geospatial BU talks about the role of technologies like Geospatial mapping and IoT coupled with visualisation and analytics upping the smartness quotient of cities and his vision for India\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission.'
9 smart cities to have approximately 409 projects with an investment of Rs. 12824 crores. Silvassa emerges as winner taking the total number of cities to 99 so far with total proposed investment of Rs. 2, 03979.'
The solution will enable Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises to build & improve their online & mobile presence using a set of unique marketing tools. ITSL aims to power 10,000 merchants with this solution & reach 10 lac end-consumers by 2019.'
As agricultural lands are fast shrinking, experts are advocating to encourage urban farming to deal with the problem of food security in urban areas. However without the policy support, can it work?'
In many National Capitals of the world, public spaces are seen as an opportunity for displaying Creative Art Work. Such creative and artistic works not only beautify the city but also capture its soul, says Puri'
Each city in India can capitalize on its diversity and uniqueness in its quest to smartness rather than following a unilinear path determined by smart technologies only. A shift in thinking from technology driven solutions to people centric solutions could help us work towards more inclusive smart cities.'
The US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) is a nodal agency of US government that provides funding to partnering countries in the areas of infrastructural development. The agency had been very active in the field of aviation and energy and has also extended their support to the ambitious Smart Cities Mission Project, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. Mehnaz Ansari, Country representative, South Asia, USTDA, talks to Chahat Jain of BW SmartCities about the progress of smart city project in these cities and about the future focus areas of the agency in India. Edited excerpts.'
Pune has been the biggest achiever in the progress under the smart cities mission, says the AmCham and PwC report titled \xe2\x80\x98Snapshot of projects under Lighthouse Smart Cities\xe2\x80\x99. In an interview with Manish Arora of BW SmartCities, Kunal Kumar, Municipal Commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation tells us about the progress of Smart City Mission and his vision for the next two years.'
Technology can change the way the police controls crime in a city and can help in its early detection. Deepak Ratan, Inspector General Of Police, Varanasi talks to Manish Arora of BW SmartCities about how by leveraging technology, the state police can prevent and reduce the crime rate in the city. Edited excerpts...'
Sikkim being a fortunate state having beautiful tourist destinations and a part of 100 smart cities of India is situated at a strategic location for defence. \xe2\x80\x9cWe see the existing conditions as an opportunity where we can strengthen the value proposition of the city and provide more economic opportunities to the young entrepreneurs\xe2\x80\x9d, said Navin Rai, Joint Chief Town Planner and Nodal Officer, Smart Cities Mission, Sikkim in an exclusive conversation with Chahat Jain of BW SmartCities.'
Policing became smarter in the state of Uttar Pradesh with UP Dial 100, the emergency response management system. The project is jointly implemented by Tech Mahindra and Mahindra Defence Systems to provide integrated emergency services relating to public safety across the State on 24\xc3\x977 basis. A centralized contact center has been established at Lucknow for receiving all emergency calls directly from across the State, including remote rural areas. The results were encouraging. In about one year of its operation, UP100 provided assistance in more than 42 lakh cases and is currently catering to around 1.2 lakh citizen calls on daily basis. Chahat Jain of BW SmartCities talks to Aditya Mishra, ADG UP-100, about changing police perception in the state.'
Cities are doing everything to become smarter. But, are they paying enough attention to safety as well?'
The company is eyeing at providing end-to-end railways lifecycle solutions aimed at transforming Indian Railways and urban metro rail projects in over 20 cities across India.'
Ahmedabad was amongst the first slot of cities to be selected for the Smart Cities Mission. Ranked at sixth, the city was be-hind Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur Kochi and Surat, however, the recent tag of becoming India\xe2\x80\x99s first heritage city has boosted the enthusiasm of the city officials who are trying their best to maintain the status of India\xe2\x80\x99s first heritage city and at the same time transform it into a smart city. According to Rakesh Shankar, CEO- SPV (Smart City), Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, in the last few months, the city has taken many steps to transform the city. And he feels that with its latest prepaid Jan Mitra card, the city has really taken a smart leap in this direction.'
The Uttar Pradesh Government, under the new dispensation has come up with a new industrial policy, which is particularly aimed at facilitating ease of doing business, promoting employment generation, and also in reviving the old industrial cities in the state. What the new policy is offering is ease of doing business for the investors, assuring them of \xe2\x80\x98zero tolerance\xe2\x80\x99 with regard to law and order situation and better business climate and substantial policy framework. Manish Arora of BW Smart Cities talks to Satish Mahana, Minister for Industries Uttar Pradesh, about the new industrial policy, chang-ing perception of the investors in the state, reviving the old textile units of Kanpur and restore its lost glory as the Manchester of the East.'
Hardeep Singh Puri is a distinguished former diplomat. Many people were surprised when he was chosen to head the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. But, Puri has a number of plans, and he is proceeding at a breakneck speed to implement PM Narendra Modi\xe2\x80\x99s flagship programmes. Excerpts from a conversation with BW Smart Cities\xe2\x80\x99 Suman K Jha.'
The marquee event saw the company launch its indoor and outdoor lighting systems that provide complete lighting infrastructure for the upcoming Smart Cities.'
Rapid expansion of city limits often described as the urban sprawl or peri urbanization can be accounted for as the new urban reality of India- a quintessential feature of contemporary urbanization.'
The municipal council has instituted the smart poles in the business and financial centre, Connaught Place in New Delhi. Adding value to the lighting infrastructure in the city, the poles have LED lights and are Wi-Fi enabled.'
Cities selected to launch the pilot project of Multi-Modal Electric Public Transport for introducing electric buses, taxis and three-wheelers'
In a future with an increasingly mobile and flexible workforce, the way in which companies utilize their leased office space will change drastically'
The Uttar Pradesh Government has been applauded for adopting the UP 100 initiative for strengthening the state\xe2\x80\x99s safety and security. They are now developing new apps and systems for better results'
Expert jury panel came together to recognize the best work from Cities, States & Industry.'
The honor recognizes Sterlite Tech\xe2\x80\x99s transformative efforts to create shared value in \ne-education, healthcare, women empowerment and environment management'
The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will soon be among the cities raising funds through bonds, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said today.'
Indian cities are expected to play an increasingly important role in shaping the country\xe2\x80\x99s future owing to the heavy rate of migration from rural to urban areas'
An efficient addition of IoT and monitoring devices is also integral for public security. Real-time processing of data from devices such as surveillance cameras in public places, ATMs, and vulnerable areas can discourage crime.'
As a landmark year for the real estate industry draws to a close, it\xe2\x80\x99s time to review the major events of 2017 for Indian real estate and look at some upcoming trends in 2018'
"When much is talked about social media, technology, it come with own set of challenges. Unfortunately in this environment, every resources can also be detriment and can be used against us."'
Skyrocketing property prices, land saturation and subdued demand for mid-range homes in the tier I cities have led buyers and investors to explore more cost-effective markets in non-metro (Tier II & III) and suburb cities.'
Environmental policies therefore will be vital, as the country moves towards setting up Smart Cities. There will be an increased demand for digital technology and innovation for enabling a better quality of life and adequate resources for all.'
The government will take more measures to promote urban public transport'
1,000 officials, experts from 25 foreign countries and 20 Indian States to participate'
The project for Gujarat\xe2\x80\x99s fourth-largest city includes more than 450 integrated closed-circuit televisions (CCTVs) and Wi-Fi at 13 key public places, supported by software and servers across 107 strategic locations in the city.'
With a proposed investment to the tune of Rs.20,000 crore, Varanasi Smart City, the high profile constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,  is all set to transform itself from the sleepy heritage city to a modern city with all modern infrastructure.'
Varanasi which is among the oldest cities in India famous for its Hundreds of Ghats, Temples and Kala Bhawan is set to be developed as Smart City. Government has already moved a budget of 321 Crores for development of Varanasi as Smart City.'
Varanasi, also known as Banaras or Kashi, city on the banks of the Ganges in Uttar Pradesh, India, is set to roll out they key projects in the city for areas based and pan city development.'
MahaRERA still does not provide information on the pricing of apartments. Also, the bulk of the data available is given project wise, making it challenging to collate and interpret it for a micro-market analysis'
b"In conversation with BW Smart Cities' Nivedhana Prabhu, Paul Jones \xe2\x80\x93 MD, EMEA & India at Aristech Surfaces LLC and Harsh Upadhyay, Associate Vice President & Head - Business Development, GREENPLY talk to us about their collaboration, skill India initiative, need for infrastructure and the attitude of comprise of quality in the Indian market."
b"In an exclusive conversation with BW Smart cities' Nivedhana Prabhu, Sushil Chaudhry, Presidential Member \xe2\x80\x93 ISHRAE and D. Nirmal Ram, Chairman, Acrex 2018 and ISHRAE talk about sustainable living and energy efficient buildings becoming the need of the hour."
He said that important things which are involved in the process include availability of equipment and adequate infrastructure.'
The Union minister also said that the Centre was ready to provide a helping hand to make Dahej PCPIR a success. The Centre had approved setting up of four PCPIRs in the states of Andhra Pradesh (Vishakhapatanam-Kakinada), Gujarat (Dahej), Odisha (Paradeep) and Tamil Nadu (Cuddalore-Nagapattinam)'
The app will keep the citizens updated with the latest schemes and services of the government and the users will also be able to use the app for registering their complaints.'
b"The company's arm Ford Smart Mobility LLC will initiate a pilot project of its smart shuttle services in Chennai by the end of this year."
For easy & accelerated implementation of the Scheme , modern technology shall be used for household survey by using Mobile App'
Ravi Shankar Prasad says India is becoming a hub of electronics and mobile manufacturing.'
b"In conversation with BW Smart cities' Nivedhana Prabhu, Divisional Commissioner, Varanasi,  Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, talks about the aim and importance of developing the city to become smart while preserving the culture of a beautiful city like Varanasi"
Our current city planning processes are definitely not assessing the carrying capacity of a region, leading to tremendous pressure on existing resources'
b"The four member committee headed by Transport Commissioner, comprises of Nashik Municipal Corporation's (NMC) commissioner Abhishek Krushna, managing director of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and a joint or deputy secretary of Urban Development Department as its member secretary"
The Ministry has earlier this week approved a Rs.300 cr action plan for procuring modern equipment and systems for making a visible impact on solid waste management by which 670 ton per day waste processing capacity would be created by the end of December this year.'
Of the 2,215 cases of dengue, 1,177 affected people were residents of Delhi, while the rest were patients from other states. Of the 1,177 cases of Delhi residents, 348 were reported this month.'
As a part of the first phase, 50 water ATMs of the 200 planned will be set up, reaching more than 150,000 people'
The government has announced Rs 50-lakh prize money for the winners of the contest, Best performers in each category will be awarded Rs 5 lakh each.'
The E-waste disposal programme started  with a removal Of 12,500 Kg waste in a single day under an initiative aiming to clear accumulated junk, reportedly estimated at over one crore kg'
Smart Meters are being procured for smart grid projects in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. About 100 companies participated in Pre-Bid meeting of mega tender'
The system will comprise preparations of City Smart Cards, Mobile App and a web portal on Public Private Partnership Model'
Nasscom has lauded the supreme court\'s judgement on Right to Privacy as it will "significantly boost India\'s attractiveness as a safe destination for global sourcing".'
The collaboration will play a significant role in arranging around 2 lakh Common Service Centres to act as a single contact point for all the digital support services of Indira Gandhi National Open University. The initiative taken by IGNOU will be highly beneficial to the students living in rural areas'
The government also informed that a sum total of Rs 3 lakh has been collected as fine.'
The green panel slammed the Karnataka government for not taking appropriate action to clean the Bellandur lake and said it was not satisfied with the answers given by different authorities in relation to compliance of its directions.'
Garhwal commissiner would head the Dehradun Smart City Limited Company, which would have Mussoorie-Dehradun Development Authority VC, additional Secretary urban development, additional director of Urban Development and Commissioner Nagar Nigam as the Directors.'
This integrated system automatically verifies the ownership and share of the seller prior to the registration of the sale of land'
According to the order the Registered Office of Jammu Smart City Limited shall be headquartered at Jammu Municipal Corporation, Town Hall, Jammu and that of Srinagar Smart City Limited at Srinagar Municipal Corporation, Karan Nagar, Srinagar.'
b"The minister spoke about the 3Ds, which today's global engagements need to focus their energy upon"
EESL has become the world\xe2\x80\x99s largest street light management company, illuminating 50,000 KM of Indian roads'
The new service enables people in Odisha to pay utility bills on the state government\xe2\x80\x99s website using an ICICI Bank payment gateway.'
The Home Minister added that at present out of the 15,398 Police Stations under the CCTNS project, 14,284 Police Stations are using CCTNS software'
The Haryana government today said factories registered under the Factories Act, 1948, can apply for the exemption from employing women in the night shift from 7 pm to 6 am'
The quantum of funds, which the Centre was supposed to provide for the projects, will now be provided by the state and local governing bodies for the completion of these 18 stalled projects'
The committee would consult all tribal hohos and stakeholders for reviewing the Municipal Act and submit its report within three months from the date of notification of its constitution'
b"China will run the world's fastest bullet train between Beijing and Shanghai at 350 kms per hour, covering the 1,250-km-long distance in just 4.5 hours from September 21"
In JLL India\xe2\x80\x99s proprietary research report \xe2\x80\x98Liveability Quotient \xe2\x80\x93 A Paradigm Shift in India\xe2\x80\x99s Satellite Cities\xe2\x80\x99, 10 prominent satellite cities have been closely evaluated for their city administration practices, sustainability, and overall liveability. Several factors were identified under the broad parameters of planning, connectivity, utilities, leisure, smart governance, safety, jobs, environment, real estate performance and future scope of expansion.'
The green panel imposed a penalty of Rs 3 lakh each on Hotel Leela Venture Ltd, Fraser Suites, Royal Plaza and Mahagun Hotels Pvt Ltd, Rs 2 lakh each on Chhatarpur-based Radiance Motel and Golden Petal Hotel and Banquet and Rs 2.50 lakh on Park Inn'
b"The workshop titled 'Transforming the Najafgarh Basin' was held under the aegis of DLF Foundation, India Water Partnership, a non-profit organization with a goal of promoting integrated water resources management, and INTACH"
The Policy opens a big window for private investments in metro operations'
Investments in Indian realty at $1990 million in first half of 2017; residential accounted for 54 per cent ($1075 million) of total investments'
Cities are not built in a day. As India is celebrating 70 years of Independence, BW SmartCities has attempted to put together some interesting anecdotes for the readers to mark the journey of making of modern urban India.'
The report stated that Mumbai generated 2,146 MLD (million litres) per day, of which only 1,098 MLD sewage was being treated per day and remaining 1,048 MLD was discharged into the sea/creeks without any treatment'
Once the Hisar Airport is included under the RCS, the air ticket would be priced as low as Rs 2,500'
A new metro policy is at an advanced stage of consideration and soon after its approval by the cabinet, and Tomar said that  Bhopal and Indore metro projects will be given priority'
The green panel directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee and other authorities to seize the entire stock of such plastic within one week from Thursday'
Mumbai is poorly served not only in its roads the BMC builds but also in traffic management'
The Chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh said that People will have to take permission to sink to fetch ground water'
According to an official Statement the financial loss caused by these floods has been estimated at Rs 218.72 crore'
State Transport minister Suvendu Adhikari told the assembly today that the department has seen a 30 per cent rise in its income in the last two years and somewhat stopped the leakage of funds by implementing various steps like smart cards and installing cameras inside the buses.'
The technology was introduced in the UK and USA in 2000 and cost is gradually is falling due to smart phone technology combined with an easier and cheaper installation process.'
In the first phase, this Information and Communication Technology (ICT)-based system will be installed by the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) outside 25 toilets in Karnal'
b"The luxury hotel's licence was cancelled by the NDMC in March this year over the non-payment of due license fees"
The state government would spend Rs 1 lakh crore on development works in the next five years, with special emphasis on education and road connectivity'
The conventional lights in all the 107 urban local bodies would be replaced by enegry-efficient LED lights within a year'
b"MahaDBT portal has been designed on the lines of the central government's direct transfer benefit scheme. Aadhaar will become mandatory to claim benefits through the portal"
A bench of Justices M B Lokur and Deepak Gupta directed expeditious implementation of the new policy framed by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) which has put a ban on advertisements which distracted road commuters by promoting "nudity, racism, drugs, cruelty to animals or any kind of violence'
Baijal called for strengthening the capacity and response mechanism of Delhi Police through tie-ups with reputed knowledge partners, besides pointing to the need for setting up dedicated cyber units.'
Only 19 per cent schools in Jharkhand have access to electricity.  Less than 40 per cent schools in Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura have access to electricity, as per the HRD.'
The French envoy discussed with Lt Governor Kiran Bedi the ongoing partnership between France and India in urban planning, conservation and protection of heritage buildings in Puducherry and also development of tourism'
NDMC have started testing an intelligent video surveillance system using facial recognition technologies'
As per the information by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), 50 incidents affecting 19 financial organisations have been reported during the period of November, 2016 to June, 2017'
As the country will soon complete seven decades of independence, it\xe2\x80\x99s worthwhile to remember the milestones that have had a long lasting impact on India\xe2\x80\x99s real estate industry'
Urban Development Secretary Arun Kumar Singh described the plan of the smart city and said that in the 656 acre city, 30 per cent of the space would be provided to educational institutions and institutions of skill development.'
The police have already booked few cases in the past against the tourists caught drinking on the beaches'
There needs to be an emphasis on installing right surveillance standards and industry best practices for effective surveillance that ensures safety and peace of mind for citizens'
b"Cities can get 33 per cent negative marking for misrepresenting information on the sanitation infrastructure in the next Swachh Survey ranking of cities for 2018. The first Pan india survey have incorporated new features like weightage for 'innovation' and processing for waste."
E-way bill is an electronic way bill for movement of goods which can be generated on the GSTN . The movement of goods of more than Rs 50,000 in value cannot be made by a registered person without an e-way bill.'
According to an assessment made by the Central Public Works Department, these bungalows are considered structurally unsafe in the event of an earthquake'
So far 10,000 people from rural and urban areas here were shifted to safer places and about 123 people have lost their lives due to downpours in the state.'
Google has teamed up with West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) to add real-time information about bus arrival times for Kolkata on Google Maps, making it easier for people to plan their trips.'
Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has been a leading bilateral partner for India, extending its support to major infrastructure projects, including, highways, metro rail in Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru, high speed railway project and smart cities projects. Takema Sakamoto,Chief Representative, JICA, India Office, in conversation with BW Businessworld.'
APFC panel is available at an average rate of Rs 1.5 lakh and AHF for Rs 2.5 lakh and both these products are based on IoT-enabled technologies and solutions, which can make the building, more energy efficient up to 30 per cent'
The work for replacing 2.05 lakh lights will begin in Rohini and Narela zones from Sunday, NDMC Commissioner Praveen Gupta said'
Rs 2,700 crore would be provided for the ambitious project, an additional amount of Rs 2,000 crore would be spent to increase the depth of Paradip port and Rs.9,000 crore to construct a railway line between Paradip and Talcher.'
Aayog supported the proposal of two projects at estimated cost of Rs 18,163 crore for raising speed on existing corridors of Delhi-Mumbai (including Vadodara-Ahmedabad) and Delhi-Howrah (including Kanpur- Lucknow), in June 2017.'
These RRTS projects would significantly reduce the load on the two National Highways.The 111 km Delhi-Sonipat-Panipat RRTS project would cost about Rs.16,500 cr and the 180 km Delhi-Rewari-Alwar line to cost about Rs.37,000 cr.'
The information was tweeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi'
an Indian Millennial often opts for homeownership where his or her global counterparts may happily live their entire lives in rental homes. In India, no single factor conveys a feeling of security and social integration quite as much as a self-owned home does. Buying a home may or may not make the same kind of investment sense as stock market speculation. However, an Indian Millennial is very apt to consider owning a home as an essential and fundamental basis from which to launch the rest of his or her other life plans.'
NDMC Smart City projects given timelines; Rs.1,240 cr worth works to begin in October'
In a review meeting held last week, the government has fixed timelines for many existing projects Varanasi development projects under central urban missions, which includes redevelopment of Varanasi Nagar Nigam building as an iconic building, museum-cum-culture centre on the life and works of Madan Mohan Malaviya.'
According to the National Crime Records Bureau, a total of 34,651 rape cases were reported in India in 2015, and of these, 17,104 cases were from Delhi alone. The numbers are scary, or is it?'
For last three years, Uber has changed the paradigm of mobility in India. Shweta Rajpal Kohli \xe2\x80\x93 Public Policy Head, India and South Asia, Uber, in conversation\nwith Manish Arora'
b"The 'Shelter for Urban Homeless' scheme is being implemented as part of the National Urban Livelihood Mission and Kudumbashree is the nodal agency of the programme in the state"
GST may not be instrumental in bringing down the prices of residential real estate over the short term. However, it will benefit all the stakeholders of the residential real estate sector, as the perception of the sector will improve on the back of a simplified tax structure and accountability being fixed at every stage'
Sterllite Tech will partner with Kakinada Smart City Corporation to design, build and manage Smart City solutions over a strong web scale, smarter optical transport network with optical fibre backbone.'
The Government Today announced the third list of Smart Cities. So far 90 cities are selected by the government.'
On 17 June, World day to combat desertification and drought, BW Businessworld digs India\xe2\x80\x99s preparedness to tackle a drought condition'
In the first phase, the \xe2\x80\x98Tele-Law\xe2\x80\x99 scheme will be tested as a pilot across 500 CSCs in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to understand the challenges and make necessary corrections to the scheme before it is scaled up and rolled out across the country in a phased manner.'
So far 688 cities have been declared Open Defecation free (ODF) and 531 of them have been independently verified and certified as ODF.'
The system will include floodplain filtration technique, which includes using plants and microbes, apart from rice husk, for purifying water'
b"A total of 76 polluting industries around the lake were shut down by the authorities in pursuance to the green panel's order after a mound of garbage was set on fire in February this year, leading to massive pollution in the area."
The consortium will assist the Varanasi Smart City Ltd. in various phases of project implementation, which will include the activities such as, preparation of DPR, coordination with various appointed consultants, project prioritization & phasing, preparing capital investment plan, implementation roadmap, conducting feasibility study, bid process management for selection of implementing agencies, overall project management etc.'
b"The top quarter of most populated cities, in this scenario, could see the mercury rise 7 C or more by century's end, said a study in the journal Nature Climate Change."
Higher off-take from power distribution companies with lower tariffs will also support capacity additions'
b"Yogi Adityanath said that his government was making all out efforts to clean river Ganga before the 2019 Prayag Ardh Kumbh and sought Belguim's cooperation"
The app currently covers details of five villages in Rajasthan and six in Gujarat which are facing the problem of groundwater depletion. Real-time data on groundwater level is vital for regulating its use for farming'
All fire tenders will also be equipped with global positioning system (GPS) device to monitor their movement.'
Venkaiah Naidu also announced to distribute free television DTH (direct-to-home) set top boxes in the remote and tribal areas of the Naxal-affected state to make people aware of various government schemes.'
We want to introduce 2 lakh electric buses for public transport, Road Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari said.'
The ICHR will soon shortlist names of a few historic cities, for which the research body will offer a plan for urban decongestion while keeping the heritage characteristics intact.'
The metro has installed, what it calls, "Dream Gates" in two stations of this corridor, popularly known as the \'Heritage Line\' as it goes underneath old Delhi neighbourhoods such as the Red Fort and Jama Masjid'
b"The channel is called 'People First'. Under the initiative, citizens can dial 1100 to register complaints about government services and schemes, which will be escalated to the department concerned in realtime for redressal"
Out of 86.16 smart Ration cards,  Coimbatore alone issued 3.52 lakh smart cards'
Investments worth over Rs 4 lakh crore have been approved for improving urban infrastructure in the three years of the Modi government, Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu said'
The announcement was made by state Education Minister Altaf Bukhari during a meeting with a delegation of students pursuing post-graduation in disaster management at the University of Kashmir'
Lekhi pointed out that given the current geo-political situation, there is a need to step up training of police officers and modernize the systems for better internal security.'
Anil Baijal, Lt. Governor of Delhi said that Delhi Police is going to hire a dedicated technology officer to help the force to solve the cases of cyber crime'
Ransom ware is the monetization of an organization\xe2\x80\x99s failure to do the fundamentals of cyber security well. As most ransom ware targets a handful of well-known vulnerabilities, keeping systems patched and up to date goes a long way towards preventing a ransom ware attack.'
Community projects are like smaller cities within a larger one but with many conveniences of its own spanning hundreds of acres with facilities like offices, shopping malls, cinemas, schools, hospitals and all other facilities that are there in developed urban centres'
b"A few days ago, Tel Aviv municipality and Thane municipal corporation joined hands as part of India's 'Smart City' initiative"
The exchanges between Portugal and Haryana would further strengthen the bilateral relationship between the two countries, an official release quoted the Portuguese ambassador'
The new minimum fare will be up from Rs 8 to Rs 10 while the maximum would be Rs 50 as against the existing Rs 30, a Metro spokesperson said.'
On behalf of India, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation Minister M Venkaiah Naidu will preside over the deliberations of the 58-member Governing Council (GC) of the UN-Habitat for the next two years.'
The metro network will cover a total distance of around 72 kilometres across three corridors'
The students were taken to hospitals in the neighbourhood. Barring three, who are still under observation in the Intensive Care Units of two hospitals, the rest have been discharged.'
The latest Swachh ranking of the cities for 2017 was announced by Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu'
8 lakh Sample Survey reveals cities turned much cleaner in last one year'
The trend of buying second homes or vacation homes saw an upswing.'
This is the third cyber police station in the state after Mumbai and Pune'
As the cities are going vertical, elevators and escalators are becoming important part of the high rise building design. Latest technology is redefining designs of\nelevators and escalators, which are more energy efficient with lower maintenance cost. Sebi Joseph, President, Otis India, in Conversation with Manish Arora'
The installation of LED street lights has resulted in Annual energy savings of 295 million unit kWh, avoided capacity of over 73 MW and reduction of 2.3 lakh tonnes of CO2 annually'
He will interact with officers from the ministries of Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) and Information and Broadcasting'
The chief minister directed the officers to make maximum use of funds allocated under the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB)'
It cannot be said with certainty that the demonetization move has completely eliminated black money from the sector, particularly where money that is already deployed is concerned. However, cash transactions wherein unaccounted or ill-gotten money was being parked in real estate have certainly become exceedingly difficult to execute'
Naidu Spoke on various aspects of development of smart cities in the country at the Knowledge sharing workshop on \xe2\x80\x98Smart Cities and Informed Urbanisation\xe2\x80\x99 here today, organized by NITI Ayog and University of New South Wales, Australia.'
The move comes against the backdrop of repeated student protests in Kashmir, which the authorities believe are fanned through social media'
The country is looking on areas of collaboration such as waste management, smart cities, and renewable energy'
The entire supply and procurement chain of Railways will be digitised to curb corruption.'
b"The prime minister will flag off a flight from Shimla to Delhi to launch the regional air connectivity scheme 'UDAN', under which fares of flights will be capped at Rs 2,500 per seat per hour"
The Uttarakhand government will provide land for developing the software technology park in Pantnagar and efforts will be made to boost exports from Dehradun IT park'
Among small group of states & Union Territories to notify RERA; others could miss April 30 deadline'
Medha Patkar said the demolition of the habitats in the name of development was undermining the very existence of people living there'
Incurring a cost of Rs 14 lakh, the premiere institute has set up beacons in all its classrooms, which will act as sensors as soon as a student enters the classroom'
A bench comprising Justices P C Ghose and R F Nariman allowed the plea of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) that the Tata Group firm cannot have the right to refusal in the auctioning of the hotel'
The training programme in China is for two weeks and in Japan the study course is for 20 days'
b"The urban schemes to be reviewed include Prime Minister's Awas Yojana (Urban), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Smart City Mission and Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban)."
Khare is at present Adviser (Infra) in Railway Board.'
The data from these cities indicate that average noise pollution levels generally exceed the permissible limits. The data includes noise due to horns of vehicles'
the Supreme Court vide its order on February 22 had directed that all such units will make their primary effluent treatment plants fully operational to the required capacity to meet the prescribed standards before May 21, 2017.'
UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while going through the presentations of the Urban Development Department which went on till late last night, directed officials that provisions should be made that a map of a house is passed only if it has the rainwater harvesting facility mentioned.'
Vacancy in Bengaluru has reduced from 14.5 per cent in 2010 to 3.8 per cent in 2016. Chennai\xe2\x80\x99s vacancy has come down from 32 per cent in 2010 to 11 per cent today. Hyderabad has also seen its vacancy reduce from 15.5 per cent in 2009 to 9 per cent in 2016. Similarly, in Pune, vacancy has reduced from 17 per cent in 2009 to 5.5 per cent today. The pan-India vacancy is forecasted to increase marginally this year and remain range bound until the year 2019.'
The government is in the process of developing an electronic platform for black and yellow taxis similar to that of cab aggregators. It will provide services similar to those given by cab aggregators'
The government is talking to Defence and Railway ministries on rehabilitating the project affected in the same area. The issue of land swap is also being discussed,'
b"A three-day festival will explore the idea of 'space as a place' through the cultural and architectural legacy of Lucknow, Kolkata and Delhi."
The partnership aims to enable digital access for small artisans under Smart village projects to sell their products online'
This 1,300 km-long express highway is likely to incur an investment of Rs 40,000 crore'
All entry and exit points of the Delhi Metro stations will be effectively secured in close coordination with the Delhi police and Metro authorities.'
Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology leader with focus in intelligent buildings, efficient energy solutions, integrated infrastructure and next generation transportation systems that work seamlessly together to deliver on the promise of smart cities and communities. Shrikant Bapat, General Manager, Building Technologies and  Solutions, Johnson Controls India shares his thoughts with Manish Arora of BW Smartcities about his India focus.'
A total of 69 train coaches will be produced by Chinese CRRC Dalian for subway operations in Nagpur, according to an agreement signed by the company and a local subway company.'
Nashik will have a separate cyber police station, considering rising number of crimes through internet and other online media'
The airports that will begin the new procedure from the morning of April 1 include the ones in Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Cochin and Ahmedabad.'
b"The 9-km long 'Chenani Nashri Tunnel' will reduce the distance by 31 kms, bypassing snow-bound upper reaches"
Once GST comes into effect from July, the leasing of land and buildings - as well as home loan EMIs paid by those who purchase under-construction apartments - will attract the applicable tax rate. Depending upon the tax rate that gets announced for real estate, the effect could be higher or lower than today.'
Monorail phase-II has been allotted Rs 208 crore, and a paltry Rs 75 crore for augumenting civic amenities at BKC.'
The 28 priority corridors, that fall under the A category, were identified for immediate action for traffic management in Delhi'
Minister of State for Urban Development Ranjit Patil said the state government has no plans to increase fares.'
b"The 'State-Level High Power Steering Committee' (SLHPSC), headed by Chief Secretary B R Sharma, approved the Smart City Proposals (SCPs) for Srinagar and Jammu cities for submission to the Union Ministry of Urban Development for participation in stage-II (round three) of the Smart City Competition, an official spokesman said Tuesday."
With the launch, Jaipur becomes the third city in India to get bikes on the Ola app, after Gurgaon and Faridabad, the company said'
The four roads - Mehrauli-Badarpur, Aurobindo Marg, Mathura Road and Chirag Dilli Road - would also be made encroachment-free under the plan'
Rajiv Gauba, Secretary (Urban Development) today reviewed various aspects of functioning of DMRC with Mangu Singh, MD of DMRC and other senior officers.'
Union Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines, Piyush Goyal chaired a meeting with the Minister of Energy, Government of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Shrikant Sharma and other senior officers of the State Power Department, on Tuesday.'
NDMC, Navi Mumbai and Pune have gained AA+ Credit Rating while Ahmedabad, Visakhapatnam and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation have got AA credit rating.'
b"Launched in November last year, the exercise aims to harnesses creativity of students, build funnel for 'Start-up India, Stand-up India' campaign, crowd-source solutions for improving governance and give opportunity to citizens to provide innovative solutions to India's daunting problems."
The team comprising persons from horticulture, civil and health departments will also be acquainted with latest technology, mechanisation of horticulture and smart city facilities in the Chinese capital'
Bhubaneswar Smart City has decided to do away with the metro rail and is focussing on improving the bus transport system, installing intelligent traffic system and creating cycling tracks for the convenience of cyclist and pedestrians'
One of the most ambitious projects of the Modi Government, the progress of Bullet train is painfully slow due to bureaucratic hassles'
By institutionalizing a culture of data in India cities, there will be an immediate increase in transparency, accountability, informed investments and increased citizen engagement.'
Investments in location and other ICT tools to create economic, social and environmental improvements to citizens is only part of the smart city story'
Indian Railways is the backbone of Indian transport system. However the existing infrastructure is not enough to cater to the growing passenger demand in future. Railway requires massive technical overhaul and upgradation'
Creating good parking space can go a long way for smooth road traffic. BW Smartcities look at how cities are adopting smart parking solutions using technology'
Handling city traffic, especially during peak hours, is a universal concern for global mega cities. Can technology be the answer for smooth traffic management?'
Access of safe drinking water remains a challenge for urban India.  Depleting ground water, lack of proper rain water harvesting and rising contamination in the ground water is posing fresh challenge for the Indian cities, especially in low-income or resettlement colonies, which are struggling to get safe and affordable water. While affluent class depend on the water purifier or the bottled water, millions are still dependent on piped water access and other unreliable water sources. Piramal Sarvajal, is an initiative under the aegis of Piramal Foundation, to provide safe drinking water to all. Anuj Sharma, COO, Piramal Sarvajal shares his thoughts with BW SmartCities'
Eureka Forbes Limited has launched specific programme to launch safe water and safe air initiative for Indian cities. Manish Arora  talks to  its CEO, Marzin Shroff'
In last five years, Barcelona has transformed itself into one of the most advanced European cities. The city has smartly embedded technology with green living together and has created a city, which is smart, healthy and retaining its vibrant culture.  Antonio Vives,  CEO of City Transformation Agency, Barcelona the man behind the transformation of Barcelona into a Smart City, in a brief chat with BW Smart Cities'
IPE Global has been partnering governments at central, state and city level across India to help design, operationalize and implement a wide range of urban investment programmes, including AMRUT, SBM and the Smart City Mission.  Manish Arora of BW Smartcities in conversation with Richard Slater, Director Research, Development & Learning, IPE Global'
A network-centric visualisation technology can also unlock various other direct and indirect benefits for urban mobility operations in smart cities'
Smart Villages are a good way of ensuring rural areas are not left out of the development agenda even as cities boost their infrastructure facilities.'
The the Standing Committee on Rural Development in its report noted that reduction or insufficient fund allocation by NITI Aayog and the Finance Ministry would result in missing its target of becoming open defecation free by 2019 "reduction on the target of rural population to be covered with piped water supply."'
As more automobiles connect, software competency will provide an edge and open further opportunities for the service providers.'
Government has opened doors for privatisation of metro rails. Can it help the metro rail to become a viable transport option? Anuradha Shukla examines  the challenges'
Public procurement can be a key facilitator of India\xe2\x80\x99s small and medium manufacturing sector by providing the necessary demand for its goods.'
b"The Standing Committee on Urban Development, in its reports 'Demands for Grants (2017-18)' for HUPA Ministry, noted that a lot of bogus builders/developers are apparently registering and enlisting a lot of consumers for allotment of economic weaker section/ lower income group house in the name of affordable housing scheme under the mission of 'Housing for All by 2022'."
Started by three young techies, Smart Cities Wheel is a startup using Artificial Intelligence which can help the urban planners to plan the city and map the performance of the city in a better way'
Can anyone forget Chennai\xe2\x80\x99s floods of 2015? Induced by unplanned construction, the flood washed away the city infrastructure and became  live example of what unplanned development can do to a city. A look at how the city is recovering and revamping its entire transportation plan to become a smart city by the year 2019.'
The finance minister has acknowledged the need to continue with strong economic reforms, promote higher investments, and accelerate growth, particularly is sectors like railways, roads, and renewable energy.'
Indian cities are becoming worse in terms of pollution. The Centre is investing in many green mobility options to cut the emission and make our cities safer to breathe'
Efficient policy and smart implementation can completely change the demography of Indian villages'
Singapore is pioneer in Urban water harvesting and has become a model for other countries to follow'
High quality mobility in cities is crucial for the success of other sectors and the creation of jobs, and plays a key role in cultivating a conducive environment for residents and business.'
A recent study by McKinsey Global Institute says that  India, will require building 2.5 billion square metres of paved road to match the huge influx of migrating population in the urban pockets by the year 2030. However the pace of highway construction is at an average of 18.23 km per day, a way lower than what is required. Ben James, CEO of  Global Road Technology, an Australia based  company, talks about how new equipment and advance technology can increase the speed of road making in India by almost three times,  and can save substantial cost of construction .'
FinTech Valley in Vizag is a self-sustainable global FinTech ecosystem that focuses on converging finance and technology to create large avenues of growth through industry enablers, world-class infrastructure, entrepreneurship and innovation.  J A Chowdary\xe2\x80\x93 Special Chief Secretary and IT Advisor to the Chief Minister, Government of Andhra Pradesh, shares his thoughts with Manish Arora of BW Smartcities'
Rajiv Gauba, Secretary in the Union Ministry of Urban Development tells BW Businessworld\xe2\x80\x99s editor-in-chief Anurag Batra that the years 2017 and 2018 would see a lot of action on ground in the realm of smart cities. He says that even though the first few months of the Smart Cities Mission had been consumed by essential basic activities, a very large number of projects in the cities were now ready to take off. Gauba, however, feels that the limited revenues and limited capacity of cities around the country was a big challenge. Excerpts of an exclusive interview:'
Smart mobility solutions can make our cities economically productive, less polluting and wasteful of resources, socially inclusive, environmentally sustainable and above all, liveable'
b"Central oil PSU Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) has completed its first Model Village project at Gandhigaon in Assam's Golaghat district."
b"The IoT's disruptive nature requires the assessment of the requirements for its future deployment across the digital value chain in various industries and application areas."
Around Rs 800 crore has been earmarked for construction of 70-acre market at Tikri Khampur to decongest the "overcrowded" Azadpur Mandi.'
Under the subsidy programme, in the last two years domestic consumers using up to 400 units of electricity per month are charged at half the rate.'
Tackling the "traffic menace" and resultant vehicular pollution will be top on the agenda of newly-elected BMC Mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar.'
b"Singapore's Consul General Ajit Singh made the offer when he today called on Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and discussed areas of mutual cooperation."
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced investment of Rs 12,000 crore in upgrading eight highways in Gujarat to National Highways as part of efforts to boost infrastructure development and job generation in the state'
More than 200 internationally acclaimed experts in the field of energy, policymakers, technology providers, academia and researchers will take part in the event to be held at the Manekshaw Centre here'
NGT asked the Mumbai-based builder to deposit Rs 40 lakh with Lonavala Municipal Council for the restoration work within a month'
\xe2\x80\x9cWe have to reimagine the urban development in India. We have to challenge the notion that economic development do not happen in smaller towns'
Network cameras could also enable new applications in commerce, entertainment and tourism, especially when coupled with mobile and location-based technologies'
The Los Angeles-based company, known as Hyperloop One, will decide by year-end whether it is feasible to run the vehicle in India after studying the market, CEO Rob Lloyd said in an interview in New Delhi.'
The terms of cooperation will also include the intention to establish a programme of International Exchange for entities based in DIFC and GIFT, enabling them to set up entities in Gujarat/Dubai on mutually agreed terms.'
There has been a sharp increase in India in the number of health tech startups -about 60 per cent of the total number of companies -in the past few years and these have attracted funding worth over $100 million since 2014.'
The MoU will help BSNL to draw a framework for transition from the current network to futuristic 5G network'
The Ministry will discuss a set of five major reforms with states and Union Territories at a \xe2\x80\x98National Workshop on Urban Development\xe2\x80\x99'
Paytm Mall aims to offer a combination of the Mall and Bazaar concepts to Indian consumers.'
This is another major development for clean enegy after solar power touched all-time low of Rs 2.97 per unit earlier this month for Reva solar Park.'
Green building is projected to grow 20 percent in India by 2018'
Darshan Circuit works to be taken up include development of streets and pedestrian pathways, laying of cycle tracks along beach side, plantation, provision of benches, resting spaces, changing rooms, drinking water and toilet facilities, craft and food bazar, signages, LED lighting, plazas for vending spaces etc.'
b"NRDA released 42 Area Based Development (ABD) projects, envisaged under various initiatives such as Green Habitat Corridor, Rural Rejuvenation, Urban Transits and Civic Centre,Intelligent buildings, Smart Water & Energy Solutions,to develop Naya Raipur as an ultramodern \xe2\x80\x98Green and Smart City'."
The places for which the CM approved these nine water supply schemes are: Bhiwandi-Nijampur (Rs 205.52 crore), Nanded-Waghala (Rs 24.12 crore), Parbhani (Rs 102.94 crore), Beed (Rs 114.19 crore), Shirdi (Rs 36.65 crore), Lonavala (Rs 33.48 crore), Ahmedpur (Rs 44.52 crore), Chikhaldara (Rs3.81 crore) and Dondaicha Varwade (Rs 20.91 crore)'
Set up with financial support from the Department of Personnel and Training, the gymnasium is equipped with two treadmills, one recumbent bike, two cross trainers, one multi-gym, a flat bench, an inclined bench and dump bell sets. The facilities will be further expanded in due course.'
GIFT IFSC has crossed cumulative business transactions worth $2 billion and is expected to create 10,000 jobs by the end of this year'
The Solar Parks and Ultra Mega Solar Power Projects will be set up by 2019-20 with Central Government financial support of Rs.8100 crore'
All payments are being made through cashless mode and even it is receiving 70 per cent revenue via the same medium'
metro rail is not feasible in a city like Bhubaneswar even in coming two three decades'
A total of 3.77 crore voters will determine the fate of 17,331 candidates for 3210 seats up for grabs in 10 municipal corporations, 11 zilla parishads and 118 panchayat samitis in the second phase of polls being seen as "mini general elections."'
The project comprises the deployment and installation of the communications-based train control (CBTC) solution Trainguard MT for 38.2 km of double track with 36 stations and two depots, as well as onboard equipment for 23 trains.'
Madhya Pradesh has been sanctioned 82,262 houses in 49 cities and towns with an investment of Rs.5, 260 cr with central assistance of Rs.1, 071 cr. Jammu & Kashmir got 4,915 houses in 24 cities and towns with an investment of Rs.240 cr and central assistance of Rs.74 cr. Dadra & Nagar Haveli\xe2\x80\x99s capital Silvassa has been sanctioned 803 affordable houses with an investment of Rs.26 cr and central assistance of Rs.12 cr.'
Vehicle emission and burning of toxic waste are the key factors fuelling air pollution, says Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson and Managing Director of biotechnology firm, Biocon.'
b"A rapidly growing hub for IoT solutions, the country's IoT market size in this area is expected to increase about 7 times -- from USD 1.3 billion last year to USD 9 billion by 2020, said consultancy firm Deloitte in its TMT Predictions 2017"
Transit-oriented development and changing homebuyer preferences propel the change'
The states which have recorded less storage vis-a-vis the corresponding period last year are Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.'
The plant is expected to generate 0.95 million units (MUs) of green energy annually will be sufficient to light more than 650 homes for over 25 years while reducing the carbon footprint of around 316 Metric Tons (MT) of carbon footprint every year'
The panel discussed how technology can be deployed to solve the various challenges in the healthcare and education sector in India'
As of now, projects worth about Rs 1.35 lakh crore have been committed for smart Cities'
Technology giant Google won a Rs.150 crore contract from Pune smart City to set up free Wi-Fi spot at 200 places'
According to the petition, the government has passed resolutions which take away powers vested with presidents under section 45 of Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963'
According to the petition, the government has passed resolutions which take away powers vested with presidents under section 45 of Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963'
The Buddhist spiritual leader was on a two-day visit to Andhra Pradesh capital region Amaravati'
The Madhya Pradesh government would be spend Rs 86,000-crore during the next five years on the development of cities across the state.'
As per pollution data, shared by Union Environment Minister Anil Dave in reply to a question in Lok Sabha, concentration of PM 2.5 and PM 10 steadily rose in Delhi since 2014, where 2016 stands out for a rapid build up compared to the previous years.'
From this year, the IUC Programme will coordinate and cooperate with other cities networks (C40, UCLG, ICLEI) and relevant Government led initiatives currently operating in the country, such as the AMRUT and the smart cities Mission'
A bench of Justices M B Lokur and P C Pant quoted a study of a Boston-based institute which said that every year around 3000 people die in Delhi due to air pollution-related diseases.'
State-run power firm MSEDCL said unless the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) pays the pending Rs 25- crore bill, electricity supply to street lights would not be restored.'
Under the pact, KPCL can avail a debt of Rs 27,121 crore for generation projects and other loan requirements.'
NDMC today renamed Dalhousie Road in the national capital as Dara Shikoh'
There are 66,663 areas where drinking water is affected due to the presence of arsenic and fluorides'
Providing easy transport options is not sufficient to solve the issue of mobility in a smart city. Smart mobility should ensure better last mile connectivity, smart mobility solutions with an optimal work and life balance and eco-friendly transport system.'
Ministry of Urban Development has approved investment of Rs. 2,863 crore for improving the urban infrastructure in six states under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT).'
THE SMART Cities Awards 2016 pick innovative ideas that have improved the foundations of the city including leadership, physical infrastructure, access and mobility, environment, social infrastructure, education, institution, technology and citizen outreach, and overall viability.'
Kochi is already making significant move towards smart urban transport system'
The smart city is all about how the city \xe2\x80\x9corganism\xe2\x80\x9d works together as an integrated whole and survives when put under extreme conditions'
Other aspiring \xe2\x80\x98Smart Cities\xe2\x80\x99 in India can learn a lot from Mahindra World City in Jaipur'
Dustbins are no longer smelly boxes with overflowing rubbish. They are coming up with features like in- built sensors, Wi-Fi and compressor which can recycle the waste'
The future of the cities will be decided by the way they use and manage their energy requirements. A visit to Tata Power\xe2\x80\x99s Smart Grid Lab in Rohini, one of its kind in the country, can be an eye opener. A home to several pilot projects, the lab showcases how IT and operational technologies can be applied to bring transformational changes in the lives of ordinary consumers. Praveer Sinha, Managing Director of Tata Power DDL, talks to Anuradha Shukla about the changes that are happening in power sector and the smart transition of the company towards smart way of distributing and managing power'
Bernard Tabary, International CEO, Keolis, a private French transport group makes case for more private participation in the development of Indian public transport system.'
Solar City Plan is a step towards creating energy-efficient cities. However, will smart cities be smart enough to be liveable under the dread of rising air pollution?'
When Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) issued a tender for procuring 50 million LED bulbs, it had no takers other than Philips Lighting as they could not match the lowest bid from Philips Lighting India of Rs 38 a bulb. The company holds about 25 per cent of the market share of LED lighting and has made a high double-digit growth in last two years and it is running at its full capacity in the country to match the surge in demand. Harshavardhan Chitale, Vice President and Managing Director, Philips Lighting India talks about the evolving energy efficient lighting industry and the recent shift towards connected lighting'
Jammu and Kashmir government today said it is developing mega parking facilities in Jammu and Srinagar through their respective municipal corporations and development authorities to address traffic congestion in the twin cities.'
The Ministry of Urban Development got an allocation of Rs 34,212 crore, marginally up from the last fiscal year'
The Budget missed out on giving any additional income tax incentives to first-time home buyers or providing higher tax savings on housing loans and house insurance premiums. Nor did it raise house rent deduction limits.'
The survey said that due to increasing urbanization, city infrastructure is already overburdened and its land market are distorted which render rents unaffordable'
The awards received over 100 entries across various categories. After carefully analysing all the entries from all the participants, PwC with the help of jury selected winners under 12 separate categories'
Focus on infrastructure saw huge allocations that included highest-ever capital outlay of Rs 1.21 lakh crore towards modernisation of railways, identification of Rs 3 lakh crore for harnessing marine wealth under Sagarmala project and over Rs 2 lakh crore for gram panchayat developments'
The Urban Development Minister opened a CCTV central control room with 27 cameras for enhanced security and better monitoring of visitors, a solar energy project to generate 52kw of energy.'
The State Government has signed MoU with the Government of India for the development of two Mega Solar Parks of 5000 MW capacity in Leh district and 2500 MW capacity in Kargil district'
Through the MoUs, EESL would distribute energy efficient domestic appliances like LED bulbs, LED tubelights and 5-star rated fans under the Unnat Jeevan by Affordable LEDs and Appliances for All (UJALA) programme.'
The newly incorporated city SPVs would need to leverage Central and State government funds including equity to access funds from the external sources with sustainable development agenda.'
b"The Rajasthan government has signed an MoU to develop e-learning and conduct smart classes in 206 government schools in Jodhpur under the 'Project Utkarsh'."
The collaboration will help clients across sectors with analytics solutions, combining EY\xe2\x80\x99s business advisory services with Microsoft\xe2\x80\x99s comprehensive cloud-based intelligence and analytics technologies.'
Union Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu said that the Centre would extensively utilise geo-spatial technology in realising its vision to build 100 smart cities across the country.'
b"Indian and British experts are joining hands on a project to help tackle health problems associated with air pollution in Delhi, which affect some 46 million people in and around the country's capital city."
b"Haryana will set up one lakh solar lighting system in the state under its  'Manohar Jyoti' programme."
The Karnataka government and the Railways Ministry signed a memorandum of understanding to develop a suburban railway system to address notorious traffic congestion of Bengaluru'
East Delhi Municipal Corporation(EDMC) got its first modern model English school,equipped with colourful and smart classrooms for nursery sections, activity hall and other facilities at Kaushik Puri in Geeta Colony in east Delhi.'
To improve Internet connectivity in Connaught Place and Khan Market area, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has tied up with MTNL in a fresh attempt at offering free internet connectivity.'
Gujarat Government today signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) worth Rs 77,000 crore with the Ministry of Railways for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet train project.'
The company has signed an MoU with Gujarat to establish a 350-acre, multi-product industrial park with an investment of Rs 3,000 crore'
Kakinada City administration is planning for "Plastic roads" in Kakinada city as the administration is aiming to make it a pollution free city.'
R A Mashelkar, former director general of CSIR, has been named as the head of an expert committee tasked to identify and recommend sustainable technologies for solid waste, sanitation, sewerage and water supply management aimed to achieving clean India goals.'
The survey for the Rs 15881 crore Srinagar Metro Project would commence on April 1 and RITES Ltd. which has been allotted the project would submit the complete Draft Detailed Project Report (DPR) by September this year.'
b"Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated India's first international exchange -- India INX -- at the International Financial Service Centre (IFSC) of GIFT City here, saying it will enable Indian firms to compete on equal footing with offshore firms."
Union Power Minister Piyush Goyal launched the "world\'s largest" LED street light replacement project completed by SDMC in south Delhi wherein two lakh conventional street lights have been replaced with energy efficient LEDs.'
The Rajasthan government has signed two agreements with global networking giant Cisco for further accelerating digital transformation of the state.'
Getting a driving licence will cost Delhiites five times more while taking a driving test would also be expensive with a six-fold hike in base fees as RTOs in the city from Monday started charging new rates revised by the Centre.'
Tamil Nadu today joined the UDAY scheme, meant for revival of debt stressed discoms, which would help the State save around Rs 11,000 crore during the 3-year turnaround period.'
Facing the crisis of shrinking parking space and growing number of vehicles, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) will construct an 8-storeyed parking facility having the capacity to accomodate 900 cars.'
b"Kakinada MP Thota Narasimham has said Rs 1,000 crores will be spent in the next five years on the beautification of Kakinada city that has been selected to be developed as a 'Smart city'."
Thane Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh here inaugurated the newly developed Wagle Estate police station, comprising modern technological facilities and a special ward for juveniles.'
b"Despite restrictions on Internet and mobile services during the unrest in the Kashmir Valley, residents of Srinagar submitted more than four lakh suggestions to the administration in a bid to help the city win a spot in the Centre's Smart City project."
Nagpur will become Wi-Fi enabled city by March 2017.'
The NDMC will start night sweeping in 16 commercial places in its area on an "experimental" basis from January 1.'
M-wallet transactions in India are likely to grow at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of over 160 per cent to rise from just over half a billion in FY16 to 260 billion by FY22'
NCR Planning Board has released the first loan installment of Rs 406 crore for the Noida- Greater Noida Metro project which is targeted to be completed by April 2018.'
Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Chief Minister Nirmal Singh said the government has embarked on a comprehensive plan to ensure that people get quality civic amenities at par with other developed states.\n\nDescription\nFont size'
The Department of Environment Management Services (DEMS) of North Delhi civic body has earmarked Rs 5 crore for preparing Bhalswa landfill site for reuse as a garbage dump, during the financial year 2017-18.'
A nine member inter-Ministerial team deputed by the Centre to assess the damage caused in Tamil Nadu by Vardah cyclone is in the state, which has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for relief works.'
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar urged hospitals in the city to adopt cashless services as done by about 25 hospitals in his home state Goa.'
Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti said her government was making efforts to create a world-class tourist infrastructure.'
The Centre has sanctioned Rs 3,224 crore to Rajasthan under the AMRUT scheme'
Sweden, where most of household waste is recycled, may have lessons for India in environmental-friendly practices'
In a move to collect tax from 16 lakh property holders under its jurisdiction, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) began distribution of the unique property identification code (UPIC) cards.'
BW Businessworld Smart Cities Conclave and Awards 2016 looks at sustainable transformation of urban areas, encompassing long-term planning and business partnerships'
b"The concept of Smart Cities should not be limited to cities and India's villages and small towns should be covered under it, say top executives at BW Businessworld' Smart Cities Conclave and Awards."
In the Global Perspective Panel of BW Smart Cities, different panelists participated and shared the lessons that India can learn from the world.'
US-based technology major Cisco has inked two agreements with International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate) and GIFT in Gujarat for setting up an IoT innovation hub and a smart city project.'
Sweden has run out of garbage and the Scandinavian country has been forced to import rubbish from other countries to keep its state-of-the-art recycling plants going.'
b"The ITO-Kashmere Gate 'Heritage Corridor' of Delhi Metro will be launched by the end of January, DMRC chief Mangu Singh has said, ruing the combined effect of construction ban and demonetisation behind the delay."
Jaipur, Dec 12: Rajasthan government has recently launched a mobile App that provides latest information about tourist attractions in Ajmer and Pushkar with rich content including pictures, audio and video streams and cultural stories.'
People using public toilets here can now rate the lavatories for cleanliness in a move initiated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).'
The country needs a strong national encryption policy (NEP) before going cashless in post-demonetisation era to ensure safety of smart card users, according to IPS officer and IT expert Sanjay Pandey.'
The Bombay High Court today asked the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) to hold a meeting with other government agencies by January 5 and take a decision about a comprehensive road repair plan.'
With above a billion mobile phones in use across the country, e-waste has emerged as a major challange for the government, which will launch an awareness cum sensitisation programme here from December 15 to March 31.'
Indore Smart City Development Limited (ISCDL) has appointed consortium of Rudrabhishek Enterprises Private Limited (REPL) and Knight Frank consortium to provide consultancy services for preparation of Area Based Development Master Plan for the Indore Smart city.'
b"Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis will sign a A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with technology giant Oracle during his two-days tour to the United States. Oracle will assist the state in the 'Smart Cities' Mission."
Bhubaneswar, Nov 29: National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) today announced plans to set up an office in Bhubaneswar to boost IT and ITeS in eastern India.'
Chinese conglomerate Sany Group on Monday signed an MoU with the Gujarat Government to invest a staggering $2 billion over the next five years in various energy and infrastructure projects in the state.'
Haryana government has directed all its departments, corporations and boards to install card swipe machines and provide necessary infrastructure to facilitate the common man to pay government dues through electronic mediums like debit and credit cards, especially the RuPay cards.'
To offer some reprieve to cash-strapped foreign tourists following the demonetisation drive and also to help those headed to the country, forex player Centrum Direct has launched a unique mobile wallet that also offers a physical card under the label of CentrumPay.'
With disposal of solid waste emerging as a great concern in the state, Kerala government is getting ready to conduct a survey, covering 60 lakh houses, to collect data about existing waste management systems in the state.'
Amid a raging debate on demonetisation, the government on Friday said in Lok Sabha that it wanted a reduction in the use of physical currency in the economy, which should be substituted with digital money.'
Private sector lender Yes Bank has partnered with Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) to digitise payments for booking of bus tickets.'
b"Children studying in 587 municipal schools in south Delhi will be given textbooks and bags for free as the area's civic body has taken a decision in this regard for the next fiscal."
The ongoing water and sewage projects in the city have been affected due to demonetisation and if cash crunch continues, all projects will come to a standstill, Delhi Water Minister Kapil Mishra said.'
Indore Municipal Corporation has launched a special campaign and devised a novel way to stop open defecation in and around the city.'
b"The financial and entertainment capital of India is likely to see an increase in domestic and international tourist flow as a new survey has found the city to be among the world's top trending destinations for 2017."
Jammu and Kashmir government would establish smart classes in over 30 schools here during the current financial year'
Hyderabad, Nov 20: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has topped in tax collections among 22 cities in the country by collecting around Rs 190 crore with people paying their property tax and other utility bills with the demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes.'
Ahead of the civic polls in Maharashtra next year, the state government today announced setting up of a third party audit body to check whether Central and state funds released to municipal councils are used for developmental purposes.'
President Pranab Mukherjee today said India will become a "modern economic power in the world" if the government\'s innovative schemes such as \'Clean India\' and \'Digital India\' are implemented successfully.'
A state-wide centralised emergency response system UP-100, was today launched here by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav with an aim to reduce police response time to 20 minutes in villages and 15 in urban areas.'
The Odisha government today made it mandatory for all the mineral transporting vehicles to install GPS devices as part of its effort to further streamline the mining activities in the state, a senior official said.'
b"Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today gave nod for the deployment of 'Special Tourist Police' to esnsure security and safety to tourists visiting the holy city of Amritsar."
Urban local bodies in Maharashtra have collected Rs 914.35 crore in the form of taxes and arrears from citizens in the demonetised currency notes.'
Haryana government today launched a Voluntary Disclosure Scheme (VDS) 2016 for declaring tampered or defective meters for all categories of consumers having sanctioned load up to five KW.'
A British university is conducting a research into sustainable energy to help a remote village in West Bengal to access electricity for the first time by installing a sustainable system from biological waste and novel solar photovoltaic technology.'
b"The district will soon have 120 `smart classrooms' for students, mostly in rural areas, under `EkShiksha' campaign initiated by Maharashtra Government and ConnectEd Technologies, an education-technology start up."
b"The Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited has signed an MoU with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to take forward in Odisha the 'New Urban Agenda' adopted a month ago by the UN member states at Quito, Ecuador."
b"The government has approved a scheme to construct one crore houses in next three years under Housing for All by 2022', Lok Sabha was informed today."
In order to improve sanitary scenario through proper monitoring of work in this western Odisha city, Sambalpur Municipal Corporation (SMC) is all set to launch a mobile based application from next month.'
Nagpur Metro today secured a credit of Euro 130 million from AFD (French Development Agency), achieving financial closure of the project.'
India has asked the developed countries to provide finance and technology transfer support to developing nations to tackle the threat of climate change, noting that access to adequate climate finance remains an "overriding concern"'
b"Uttar Pradesh leads the country in the number of accident-prone zones or 'black spots' and the central government has taken a number of steps such as carrying out safety audits to reduce fatalities, the Lok Sabha was informed today."
To avoid inconvenience to the public, the Maharashtra government has asked state-owned enterprises and local bodies to remain open till midnight today to accept bills and arrears in old demonetised notes.'
b"Railways, the country's largest energy consumer plan to save Rs 3000 crore of its energy bill every year by procuring electricity directly from power generators of its choice."
b"Residents of five Haryana villages, which have been adopted by President Pranab Mukherjee, can now have access to doctors at Rashtrapati Bhavan with upgraded facility of Ayush clinic being launched here today under the 'SmartGram' initiative."
Can smart city leaders and partners understand and marshal their experiences so they themselves, as well as other aspiring smart cities, can learn from both mistakes as well as from global good practices?'
Maharashtra government today signed an agreement with Canada to implement a joint action plan on urban infrastructure development in the state.'
New Delhi, Nov 9 (PTI) India and Sweden should have frequent bilateral meetings to explore possibility of cooperation in urban development, Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu today said as he underlined that lot of opportunities are available for investment in Smart City projects.'
More than 30 of the UK\xe2\x80\x99s most innovative companies will be showcasing their high tech smart city solutions at the India UK Tech Summit in New Delhi. It is one of the largest business delegation for smart cites so far.'
With national capital region grappling with heavy smog, Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu on Monday strongly pitched for keeping environmental aspects in mind while framing smart city plans.'
With high levels of pollution impacting the city, Gurgaon district administration today exercised section of 144 of CrPC here and banned the burning of waste, garbage and other materials openly.'
The Paris Agreement to combat climate change becomes international law today, a landmark demonstrating that countries are serious about tackling global warming amid growing fears that the world is becoming hotter faster than scientists expected'
b"Terming Delhi's smog situation a serious issue, Environment Minister Anil Madhav Dave said his ministry will soon issue an advisory to the states concerned on taking up short, medium and long term measures to tackle air pollution, after holding wide consultations."
b"Union Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu has asked NDMC to convert Connaught Place and Khan Market as 'No Vehicle' zones through various initiatives as he expressed concern over air pollution and traffic congestion in the city."
Government is looking to reduce the time by half to 50-60 days for granting forest and environment clearances to industrial projects, Union Environment and Forest Minister Anil Madhav Dave said.'
In a major initiative for station redevelopment programme, Railways has undertaken a series of roadshows with leading developers in the country ahead of the bidding in December.'
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Vadodara tomorrow to inaugurate the international terminal at Harni airport.'
b"Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will lay the foundation stone for the proposed Financial City and Administrative City in Andhra Pradesh's capital Amaravati on October 28."
b"The State Election Commission (SEC) has clarified there are no restrictions on development works and activities in local bodies where polls are not scheduled, provided they don't influence voters in election-bound ones."
b"The UK will send two major delegations to India this week to strengthen business links ahead of British Prime Minister Theresa May's visit next month."
b"Even as China has indicated its unwillingness to support India's attempt to enter the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), the country will still go ahead with its plans to have 63,000 MW of nuclear capacity by 2032."
Mahindra Group-owned SmartShift, an aggregator for cargo owners and transporters, is targeting to build a community of one million stakeholders in three years.'
In view of the prevailing situation at the Indo-Pak border and the ongoing festive season, the Government Railway Police (GRP) has decided to install CCTV cameras at the major railway stations of Punjab.'
Telangana and Illinois State (US) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which paves way for collaboration and interaction between the two states in various fields through sharing of expertise.'
Union Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu has assured the Madhya Pradesh that the Centre will help the state government to set up the metro projects in Bhopal and Indore.'
To promote coastal shipping under its Sagarmala project, the government has approved a Rs 234-crore dredging project for ferry services between Gogha and Dahej in Gulf of Cambey, Gujarat.'
To bring down the level of pollution in Yamuna and ensure unfettered flow in the river, adequate water will "soon" be released in it from Haryana\'s Hathni Kund barrage, Union Minister Uma Bharati has said as she sought to address concerns raised by local religious leaders here'
b"North Delhi will soon get another waste-to-energy plant in Bhalaswa site that will ramp up the rate of processing of solid waste tremendously, the area's civic body said today."
b"India today signed an agreement with Russia for cooperation in the implementation of 'smart cities' programme and use of IT solutions of the Russian companies."
The central government is taking measures to enable increased flow of resources to urban local bodies and states which includes enhanced central assistance, Minister of Urban Development M Venkaiah Naidu said.'
The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MGCM) has taken action against over 1.12 lakh illegal food vendors/hawkers in 24 civic wards in last six months.'
The millennium city Gurgaon will get 500 AC and Non AC buses to strengthen its public transport system.'
Net Metering has caught the interest of educational institutes across the national capital with leading schools putting up solar panels on their roof tops for self consumption.'
Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said Maharashtra will be investing over Rs 5,000 crore for taking high-speed Internet connectivity to each of the 29,000 villages in the state by 2018.'
HP India may help Telangana Government in developing a smart city in the youngest state on a pilot basis.'
The Centre has approved projects worth Rs 350 crore for developing infrastructure at heritage sites, Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu announced, highlighting the importance of such sites in boosting tourism in the country.'
With an objective to provide safe drinking water to every family in Odisha, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik today inaugurated 100 urban piped drinking water supply projects.'
India may soon ride on a solar powered train , as Indian Railways are working to run fully solar-powered trains in the future, Minister of Railways Suresh Prabhu said.'
Maharshtra  leads among all states in its gree building footprints with as many as 1,124 green buildings from Maharashtra have been registered with the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC).'
In a drive to make learning more interactive and informative, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is going to convert school classrooms into Smart Classes.'
b"Seeking to enhance the country's capabilities in water management, the government today approved signing of a pact with the European Union on water resources."
China, the largest telecom market in the world in terms of subscribers, has started conducting trials for 5G telecommunications equipment in about 100 cities, as it aims to get a head start in the race to lead the next generation of cellular phone systems.'
The Inland Waterways Authority of India has floated three tenders for ferry vessels, dredging and the setting up of terminals on 16 km stretch of the Yamuna in the national capital.'
Describing the East Kidwai Nagar project as a role model for redevelopment, Union Minister M Venkaiah Naidu said the Rs 5,298 crore project should be replicated at other places for development of cities.'
Haryana government has increased the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for residential plots in licenced colonies.'
Hyderabad, Oct 4 (PTI) The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Government of France for funding, study and implementation of Integrated Intelligent Transport System (ITS) project on a pilot basis.'
Synchrony Financial, a consumer financial services company today entered into an MoU with Hyderabad police for installation of community closed circuit television (CCTV) surveillance system in the city.'
The Maharashtra government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Korea Land & Housing Corporation (KLHC) of the Republic of Korea.'
The Union Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for first phase of Kanpur metro rail project along with UP Chief Minister Akhilesha Yadav.'
Thane Municipal Corporation has started a mega clean-up drive involving over 3 lakh residents to make the city clean and garbage free. The drive will be conducted till October 23.'
Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Monday said it will extend a USD $200 million loan to India for installation of energy-efficient home and street lights, and water pumps, which can help the country to save energy to the tune of 3,800 gigawatt-hours per year.'
Reducing water and power use by half and promoting renewable energy and public transport are "key elements" of the government\'s urban development strategy for the next 20 years.'
Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis today said his government is working on beach cleaning and liquid waste management as part of efforts to protect the marine ecosystem.'
The Centre has finalised rules for the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, which will be communicated to the states soon, allowing them to set up regulators for the sector, Union Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu said today.'
b"Gangtok, the capital city of Sikkim, has been named as the 'Cleanest City Destination' by the Union Ministry of Tourism."
The government has rewarded 19 States and the Union Territory of Chandigarh on Friday with performance incentive for promoting urban reforms under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) during 2015-16.'
b"Invoking Mahatma Gandhi's Satyagraha against the colonial rule, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday (30 September) mooted 'Swachhagraha' movement for a clean India which he said is not something that can be achieved by budget allocations alone."
Punjab has got the largest single location solar power plant with a capacity of 31.5 MW in Mansa district. The plant was inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.'
Ahead of the second anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a day-long India Sanitation Conference -- INDOSAN -- today to take stock of the progress under the mission.'
Germany offered its expertise in city planning and technological solutions that its firms can provide in energy, water, waste treatment and traffic sectors for the Centre\xe2\x80\x99s Smart City Mission.'
The GMR consortium-Airports Authority of India (AAI) run Delhi Airport has become the first carbon neutral airport in Asia-Pacific following a series of measures taken by it to reduce carbon footprint, including setting up of a 7.84MW solar power plant.'
Bombay High Court has suggested the Maharashtra government to frame a policy for restricting the number of vehicles purchased by one family.'
The Ministry of Urban Development on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with public sector enterprise Energy Efficiency Services Ltd with an aim to improve efficiency in the energy usage.'
The Maharashtra government on Tuesday cleared two metro rail projects for Mumbai costing around Rs 25,000 crore to boost the urban infrastructure of the city.'
Centre is looking at possible sites in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana for setting up atomic plants, and is considering exporting Pressurised Heavy Water Reactors (PHWRs).'
Thermal power stations in Odisha are estimated to generate as much as 70 million tonnes (MT) of fly ash annually after completion of all projects.'
Nine out of 10 people globally are breathing poor quality air, the World Health Organisation said today, calling for dramatic action against pollution that is blamed for more than six million deaths a year.'
The emergence of virtual personal assistants (VPAs) will replace functions performed by applications and will diminish the importance of apps in delivering services , according to Gartner.'
In next three years Madhya Pradesh will spend Rs.75000 crore on the strategic development of cities, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.'
b"The Pune Smart City Development Corporation (PSCDCL) has signed a two-year Memorandum of Understanding with the European Business and Technology Centre (EBTC). As a part of the MoU EBTC will be the 'Knowledge and Technical Cooperation Partner for the Pune Smart City Project and will help the city to leverage European Smart City solutions for the Pune Smart City project."
b"Bijnor municipal council has found a place among the four civic bodies of Uttar Pradesh which have been chosen for the Centre's ambitious 'Clean Ganga Mission'."
Every aspect of smart city programme is now shared in all parts of the country, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari- literally. But the dream needs to be matched with adequate financial resources too. Municipalities need to make a thorough analysis of the costs and benefits of the development projects and determine the framework of cost recovery.'
Now consumers in the city will soon be able to know about their daily electricity consumption and access various other details like reasons for technical fault in transmission line with the company working on a Rs 100-crore project to introduce "new-age" technology.'
b"Rajasthan becomes the first state to adopt Centre's Street Lighting National Programme (SLNP) in all its urban local bodies (ULB). Almost 5 lakh conventional streetlights have been replaced with LED streetlights across the state."
Cash-strapped East Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to lease out its schools to a few private coaching institutes, with a dual aim of boosting access to education for poor children and augmenting its revenues.This project would be based on a public-private- partnership model where we have earmarked about 200 schools spread over 10 Assembly constituencies in the area.'
b"French Development Agency (AFD) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with Chandigarh Administration on Chandigarh Smart City Project and 'Technical Cooperation' in the field of Sustainable Urban Mobility."
b"Jammu and Kashmir government has finalised modalities with different stakeholders to secure place for Srinagar city in the final list of 'Smart Cities' that will be announced by the Centre in January next year. A high-level meeting was convened here yesterday under the chairmanship of Commissioner Secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department, Hridesh Kumar to discuss the modalities."
b"Google has extended its support to the Maharashtra government to make Mumbai a 'Wi-fi city'. A team of Google led by Vinay Goel met Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in San Francisco and extended their support to make Mumbai a Wifi city"
Varanasi, the high profile constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has finally made its way into the third list of 27 Smart Cities. BW SmartCities talks to the Municipal Commissioner, Varanasi, Shrihari Pratap Shahi about the ongoing projects in the city.'
Goa is expected to be the next laboratory of the central government to generate power from tidal waves of the sea using Israeli technology.'
The National Mobility Card, that allows people to access all modes of transportation across the country by using a singe card, may soon become a reality.'
Vadodara is planning to develop itself as an "innovative manufacturing hub" under the smart city mission. The city was included in the third list of the smart city project announced by the Centre in New Delhi on Tuesday.'
b"Private players, developers and industry body hailed the government's announcement of 27 more cities for the development of smart cities, adding that the move would provide business opportunities for private players."
Maharsashtra has signed Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU) with technology giant Oracle Corp for its Smart City project. Oracle will help Maharashtra in its digital transformation and set up a Centre for Excellence there.'
To enable earthquake resistant construction, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Building Materials Technology Promotion Council (BMPTC) have come out with Earthquake Hazard Zoning Maps.'
Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a state-owned firm under the aegis of the power ministry, has raised Rs 500 crore from the market through its maiden bonds issue to fund energy efficiency projects in India.'
Urban Development Minister Venkaiah Naidu said that Smart Cities Mission is ahead of the schedule and Smart Cities will start taking shape in next one year.'
Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesady announced the third list of 27 cities for financing under the Government flagship Smart City Mission.'
The Central government will announce today the names of the next set of cities to be included in the second phase of the Smart Cities Mission.'
Andhra Pradesh was in for a shock when the Centre cut down by half the quantum of loan that the state wanted to secure from the World Bank for the construction of its new capital Amaravati.'
The Centre will announce the next set of 27 cities for financing under the Smart Cities Mission next week, Union Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu said today.'
US-based technology major Cisco today signed an MoU with Telangana government for undertaking a slew of initiatives which include deployment of Digital Zone smart city project and a center of excellence (CoE) and living lab in T?Hub-a technological incubator.'
Data privacy has emerged as the biggest threat for the Smart Cities ecosystem, says a recent report by Ernst & Young'
The Chief Minister of Haryana said birth, marriage and death registrations should be made mandatory in the state as it would make the census work easier.'
Maharashtra government has appointed Larsen & Toubro (L&amp;T) as the implementation partner to make Nagpur a smart city.'
Public bike share programmes, which helped major cities around the world fight traffic problems and reduce pollution, made a debut here today with a project to rent out bicycles starting in the north eastern suburb of Ghatkopar.'
A smart city is a city where its residents can live well; safe, healthy in a clean environment, and within reach of necessities such as transportation, hospitals and schools. Some cities listed as smart cities have sister cities in the developed states that have promised to help them become smart cities'
Minister of State for Urban Development Rao Inderjit Singh said other countries that have evinced interest to participate in the project include China, Singapore and South Korea'
Garg has presented several papers and addressed professional bodies on \xe2\x80\x9cSocial Entrepreneurship\xe2\x80\x9d and \xe2\x80\x9cAffordable Housing\xe2\x80\x9d for urban poor'
Asked if the first fatality reflects on government\'s level of preparedness, he said, "Our government never claimed that dengue would be wiped out. No government or state can claim so'
Principal Secretary (Renewable Energy Department) Ankur Gupta said it is also mandatory for electricity consumers in industrial, commercial and institutional sectors having connected load of 30 Kilo Watt or above'
Trains in the section have been equipped with bio-toilets ensuring zero discharge of human waste on the rail tracks'
The state-run public transporter plans to introduce the facility on about 1000 Mail and Express trains, including premier services'
The government s move is intended to ensure transparency in the functioning of Regional Transport Offices and help thousands of people, who have to stand in long queues at RTOs every day'
Former DDA Vice Chairman Balvinder Kumar had in January 2015, however, said the "new scheme would be much larger than the 2014 project, and will include at least 24,660 LIG flats"'
State Energy Conservation Mission Chief Executive Officer (CEO) A Chandrasekhar Reddy inspected the manufacturing unit at Rampachodavaram and interacted with the tribals yesterday who are involved in the manufacturing of LED bulbs'
b"Badal said Punjab is a vibrant state and vies for new vistas in the arena of mutual interest where both Punjab and Australia could benefit from each other's expertise in fields like agriculture, food- processing and horticulture"
The countries that have signed up to keep global warming limited to less than 2\xc2\xb0C\xe2\x80\x99 will have to keep real estate and building energy consumption central among the measures that they will need to institute to support this commitment'
Majithia said installing these street lights would provide a sense of security to the villagers and safety to those returning late in the evening'
The Union minister also said railway stations of Amritsar and Ludhiana will be redeveloped with modern facilities'
b"The dedicated 'Card Only' exit gates will in turn allow token users exit conveniently from remaining AFC (mixed - token plus card) Exit Gates."
The memorandum of understanding (MoU) which was signed by ambassador of the Netherlands Alphonsus Stoelinga and chief secretary Deepak Singhal in the presence of Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav'
France and India have very good relations in several sectors and the French government has helped our country on several counts. The relations between France and Puducherry are also very vivid and robust'
Rate for land allotted to Delhi government for un-remunerative uses such as maternity centres, night shelters and orphanages has also been reduced to Re 1 per annum'
Parliamentarians keep asking him to categorise their respective cities as "smart cities" and said, "Smart cities require smart leaderships for the project to become a success."'
German Ambassador in India Martin Ney gave the assurance during a meeting with Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik here.'
Modi will begin his five-day tour with Mozambique and then travel to South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya'
According to the official, even in big cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, around 80 per cent of the waste water is not recycled and released back into the water bodi'
b"This is a part of East Coast Railway's continuing endeavour to provide more and better comfort to passengers"
The Delhi cantonment area is spread over 10,791.88 acres and, as per 2011 Census, its population stands at 1,10,351'
b"He has launched his official Facebook page-Chief Minister's Office, Kerala- which will be used as a platform to inform people about government's significant decisions and new projects and also to seek their suggestions and opinions"
Replying to a question, Chattopadhyay said the solar panels would be installed at 1,000 schools and in all state government office'
The Diamond Quadrilateral is a project of the Indian Railway to establish high-speed rail network, which will connect the four metros, namely Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai'
The company is looking at opportunities in states like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu'
Ujala scheme is being implemented by EESL, a joint venture of leading PSUs under the administration of Ministry of Power'
To construct houses in this fiscal, Rs 1,30,000 for Maoist-affected and Rs 1,20,000 for non-Naxal-hit rural areas would be released, an official release quoting Principal Secretary'
The revised proposal for inclusion in the third list of Smart Cities would be submitted to the central government on June 30'
The district-level disaster management plan has detailed information about geographical details, population, flood-prone areas, villages and other macro details'
The Chief Minister, who held a high-level meeting with Smart City officials here, said the government had got an assurance that construction works of the project would be over within the period'
b"It is a turning point in the country's history. We have heard about cultural renaissance, but under Prime Minister Narendra Modi an urban renaissance is taking place"
Raote said app-based taxi operators like Ola and Uber will be allowed to operate only within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR)'
The minister explained the envoy about various initiatives by the Telangana government to attract investors to the state'
Earlier the government had acquired the farm lands for the SEZ project. But it had now been decided to transfer the site to the municipality for the smart city mission.'
b"The delegation will attend the World Economic Forum's 10th annual meeting of New Champions in Tianjin city to explore partnerships for industrial development in Andhra Pradesh"
The target is to generate 20 megawatts of solar power under the agreement in a period of two years, said a senior municipal corporation official'
A high level team was led by state chief secretary Shakuntala D Gamlin with Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) Secretary Aruna Sharma, NIC Director General Nita Verma and others'
These energy efficient fans are proposed to be distributed to consumers at an upfront price of Rs 1,173 each as against the market price of about Rs. 1750 each, the State Energy Conservation Mission informed in a press release'
b"The works would start simultaneously in 20 cities across the country, Naidu said, adding that development of some cities as 'smart cities' would motivate others also to work for progress"
10 cities in the state would be developed on the lines of the Smart City programme (of the Union government)," Fadnavis said after inaugurating the Smart City Summit at Kalyan in the district'
All possible help would be provided to develop steel industry and mining in Jharkhand and the state could contact him anytime in this regard'
The Thai premier will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his three-day visit beginning tomorrow'
Under the agreement, Railways will have 49 per cent stake while the state government will own 51 per cent in the JV company which will identify projects for development and mobilisation of financial resources for their execution, an official statement said'
State Minister for Health and Social Justice K K Shailaja inaugurated the drive by cleaning the premises of the state secretariat here'
b"Aayog's CEO Amitabh Kant disclosed this during a meeting with Chief Minister Kalikho Pul in New Delhi yesterday"
The electricity generated from the solar panels will be utilised for non-traction use in activities like lighting, air-conditioning and maintenance'
One out every ten women are familiar with internet and other data usages," head of marketing of Google India Sapna Chadha said'
b"The government's move came after the DTC could not buy buses despite floating tenders about two-three times as bus manufacturers did not showed interest due to some conditions in the tenders"
IT major Wipro Ltd has been selected to provide consultancy for setting up Information and Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure in the region, situated around 30 km from here, said MD and CEO of Dholera SIR Ajay Bhadoo'
Referring to the severe water crisis that the country is facing, Mital said there is a need to save every drop of water'
The government said building bylaws were amended for rooftop solar installations up to the height of two metres'
As per a Government of India notification, water harvesting provision is necessary for construction of plots measuring 100 square meters under the Building Bye-laws 1983'
Stressing that cycling is not a sport, Ajoy Mehta said it is the only activity, which benefits both the environment as well as the person indulging in it, through better health'
Murtadak said the civic body has asked people and builders to plant a tree each and send the selfies to NMC'
b"Lauding the state government's effort in plantation works,she appealed to the people to make it a success and plant fruit-bearing saplings"
It is a major green initiative as all services would be provided online and online and paperless governance will become a reality'
Modi and Sheikh Tamim held detailed talks here on a wide range of issues with an intent to give a push to India-Qatar ties'
The Chief minister has set a target to complete this Super Communication Expressway by the end of 2019 and hence, all departments are jointly working expeditiously,'
Railways currently provides the service at eleven stations: Mumbai Central, Bhubaneswar, Kacheguda, Vijayawada, Raipur, Bhopal, Patna, Ranchi, Visakhapatnam, Jaipur and Guwahati'
It was signed between them for constitution of a joint venture entity for development of rail infrastructure in the state'
The NDMP provides a generalised framework for recovery since it is not possible to anticipate all the possible elements of betterment reconstruction'
Lt Governor Kiran Bedi felicitated the Managing Director of the Agency Smitha and her team for bagging the third prize for solar steam cooking system'
b"Government has prepared a list of rationales behind the introduction of this scheme and they will soon be sent to the LG's office"
Some state cricket associations like Maharashtra and Karnataka have done well in solar and other environment issues, water treatment or rain water harvesting'
Indo-German partnership should and will flourish. You will be able to see for yourself the winds of change in India'
b"Kolkata-headquartered Vikram Solar believes the government's ambitious International Solar Alliance (ISA) reflects India's strong commitment towards the sector"
This grid would also end the problem of low voltage in Tamad and it would be connected to Chandil Grid'
Keeping in view of the consistent and increasing demand of water, it is needed to explore additional source of water'
The aim is to maintain sanitation and hygiene conditions at public places. The purpose is also to deal with disposal of leftovers and paper and plastic waste from roadside eateries and stalls on the roadsides due to non availability of dustbins'
The first-such pilot-cum-demonstration project of 25 KW capacity will be installed at the wind turbine test station of National Institute of Wind Energy at Kayathar, Tootikudi District, Tamil Nadu'
b"He also accepted Singapore's invitation to India to raise more funds from the island city's vibrant financial centre"
Delhi Metro is developing all its stations of Phase III as green buildings which it says will help bring down power consumption by 35 per cent'
The agreements, aimed at further deepening India-Iran ties in diverse fields, covered areas of economy, trade, transportation, port development, culture, science and academic cooperation'
Chandrababu asked Japanese companies to make Amaravati "your second home" and invest in different sectors in the new capital as well as other parts of the "sunrise state"'
b"Only air-conditioned buses will ply under the scheme according to which one bus aggregator will have to run at lease 50 vehicles to get a licence from Delhi government's Transport department"
The physical movement of data and documents will come to an end in the e-building, he said, adding this would ensure that files would not go missing or be concealed'
The plant which is one of the biggest projects of its kind in the country is likely to be dedicated to the citizen in the first week of next month'
b"Inimical forces posing a threat to state's peace and communal harmony would never be tolerated at any cost"
A pilot 2.5 MW Solar Wind Hybrid Power Project would be set up at Rangrik in Lahaul and Spiti district and would be completed by October, 2017'
b"Yingguang has said the Chinese Province of Shanxi receives half the amount of Jharkhand's annual average rainfall, but the entire province gets water from 750 reservoirs"
b"Speaking on the occasion, he said Smart President's Estate technology solution will result in rationalisation through monitoring, education, better coordination and management"
The smart cities are meant to ensure 24X7 power and water supplies, e governance, Internet connectivity among other things'
KTR inaugurated a 132/33 KV Electricity Sub Station at at Chippala palli village in the district. The Telangana government is committed to provide uninterrupted power supply in the state.'
b"The fortnight-long cleanliness drive 'Swachh Bharat Pakhwada' is being observed between May 16 and 31"
The Chief Minister appreciated the feat of Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) to usher in a solar power revolution in the state'
He said the idea is for the state government to collaborate with the Railways to create fast and accelerated infrastructure for the state'
This is the second meeting of the joint committee set up to execute the bullet train project, according to Railway Ministry'
b"The meeting was called in view of the Indian Meteorological Department's (IMD) forecast that heat wave situation will prevail in the country for the next 15 days"
Various sources would be tapped in addition to existing ones to revamp and overhaul the water supply network of the entire capital complex region'
b"The Ministry also issued a 'Swachh Office Manual' suggesting standard procedures to all central ministries and state governments to ensure sanitation"
This ultra-modern world class wi-fi service will benefit all passengers arriving at the Bhopal station. The service is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi\'s Digital India project," Sanjar'
The State government has prepared the revised solar energy policy for exploring the possibilities to develop solar energy.'
The tankers are fitted with GPS to check water theft and will enable consumers to track their movement'
The state government would spend of Rs 602 crore to achieve this target, Principal Secretary of Urban Development Department Chaitnya Prasad said'
The revenue generated through purchasable FAR will go to the concerned municipal authority for licensed colonies and projects in municipal areas'
The tenders are likely to help the domestic rooftop solar power expansion programme, according to the report by ratings agency Icra'
He said the government has taken steps to develop 100 cities as \'Smart Cities\' in the country and since stations are the beginning of any city, they will also be developed as "smart stations"'
441 acres of land was handed over for the project in 2013 but possession of 69 acre of land is still pending due to compensation issue to be handled by the state government.'
The Solar Rooftop project was initiated by Gujarat Energy Development Agency (GEDA), which is the state nodal agency to promote renewable energy'
b"They said the CPSUs will begin surface cleaning of Ganga's mainstream post-monsoon and that the effect of phase I activities under the project will become visible in October this year"
He was talking to reporters after showing installation of 5 KV solar energy panels at his residence here with an estimated cost of Rs 5 lakh'
Lauding the Department for organising the camp at Ashok Vihar, Vardhan asked them to hold second such camp in his Chandni Chowk parliamentary constituency'
Nagaland Police was among the six state police selected for making presentations on the best smart policing initiatives across the country after the award ceremony'
During his four-day visit, Badal, accompanied by a delegation of top state officers, would visit an international cycle show on Sunday (May 8) and attend a meeting with China Bicycle Association'
The idea behind the phased implementation of these, with selection of 20 cities is to look at compact areas, create a replicable model which will act like a light house to other aspiring cities (Smart City Guidelines 2015). A macro map of a framework which can be adopted to replicate both the initiatives in multiple cities is outlined in this article'
Designed to offer passengers the best internet experience, Wi-Fi will be available to any user who has a smartphone'
Railway officials along with municipal officials will visit the dam site tomorrow to work out modalities for supplying water to the parched areas from the dam'
b"While the country's urban population currently totals around 410 million people (32 per cent of the total population), it is expected to reach 814 million (50 per cent) by 2050"
Fadnavis said soon there will be an integration of ticketing system in Mumbai for the (suburban) railway, (municipal) BEST buses and shared taxis'
The MoU will also involve the civic bodies of two countries to promote Delhi and Ottawa as tourism destinations'
He said that the state government would provide jobs to 1,20,000 youth of the state through a transparent process'
b"In terms of earnings, the Division s originating earnings for 2015-16 was Rs 735.14 crore as against last year's Rs.723.36 crore"
Launched in 2015-16, the total allocation for J&amp;K for the AMRUT mission for the period of five years is Rs 744 crore'
The minister said India and the UK are natural partners and a deeper engagement can lead to a win win for both nations and economies'
LED lamps are saving thousand of crore of consumer expenditure and electricity'
The former Chief Minister demanded that before implementing the project, the affected people should be rehabilitated by shifting them to available government accommodations elsewhere'
The minister of state for power, coal, new and renewable energy, who is in London to hold talks with his UK counterparts this week, said the summit will help strengthen India-UK ties further'
I hope these projects will fulfil this essential need of the people in getting potable water and bring relief to people especially women'
A new administrative building worth Rs 5 crore will be constructed for Machilipatnam Municipality'
The hospital has two well equipped Critical Care Ambulances. It also has state-of-the-art dialysis unit'
He gave directions to the officers of Public Works Department to ensure the construction as early as possible'
He also directed the departments concerned to dig one tubewell each in all 27,711 partially covered habitations in the state at a cost of Rs 195 crore'
Together these mega projects are worth Rs 3,166 crore and will create direct and indirect job opportunities for 11,645 people in the state'
Officials of Mumbai , who participated in the review through video conference, have also reported substantial progress in ease of doing business'
Dhindsa said there was need to institutionalize a mechanism for integrating space applications in governance and development'
b"The panel will facilitate a single-window clearance from the railways' side to expedite these projects"
b"After Mumbai Central, Bhubaneswar will be the second station to have Google's free Wi-Fi service in the country"
MNRE has revised the cumulative targets under National Solar Mission from 20 GW to 100 GW by 2021-22'
The project will result in generation of 500 MWs of renewable energy and savings of about 800,000 tonnes of carbon emissions'
b"There should be an holistic approach towards agriculture sector and that's when the maximum benefit for the farmer can be ensured"
Best possible efforts have been made to improve the Kohima proposal to address the deficiencies pointed out in the first round of competition in which 20 cities have been selected'
DIAL aims to raise the capacity of the solar power plants to 20 MW by 2020'
b"The company's total capacity from wind energy now stands at 880 MW, while the solar's share is around 180 MW"
Under this programme 37,285 box-type solar cookers and 761 dish type solar cookers were distributed to beneficiaries'
Indian Railway is planning to link all metros with high-speed trains as part of its Diamond Quadrilateral project which requires huge private funding'
The project, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August 2014, was making a steady progress, he said adding that with the inflow of funds, it will be accelerated soon'
Gurjar was speaking at a health camp organised for differently-abled people at Atkur village in the district, about 25 km from here'
Apart from its own financing, the World Bank also intends to mobilise USD 25 billion in commercial financing for clean energy over the next five years'
Railways aims to equip more trains with such facilities to curb crime against women and reduce thefts and other such incidents in trains'
b"Singapore's message for India would be for urbanisation"
The five-star rated agricultural pump sets are fitted with a smart control panel, SIM card and a smart meter and can be operated remotely'
The second phase of the odd-even car-rationing scheme is set to to start here from April 15.'
The other objectives of the policy is to increase awareness about road safety, establish road safety information database and enhance safer road infrastructure'
Naidu told mayors from across the country that the Centre would provide Rs 87,147 crore directly to urban local bodies between 2016 and 2020'
The Namma eco-friendly toilet, which is equipped with solar lighting, was developed in Tamil Nadu'
The device is "leak proof" and works for almost 16 hours at a stretch'
Street vending has been a perennial issue for municipal corporations in the city'
The total length of KMP E-Way is 135.6 km and spans five districts of Sonepat, Jhajjar, Gurgaon, Mewat and Palwal'
Participation of all citizens and landowners, as well as departments has to be taken up seriously so that Kohima is included in the second list of Smart City project'
b"Inaugurating the 4th India Water Week, he said the target is to reduce 50 per cent water requirement in industries by adopting 'Recover, Recycle and Reuse' technology"
India is 79 per cent dependent on imports to meet its oil needs and Saudi Arabia is its largest supplier'
Goyal said his Ministry has already bid out 19,000 MW of solar energy projects and the installed capacity of 20,000 MW would be achieved as early as 2017'
The state government has decided to provide water supply in unauthorised colonies of urban areas.'
b"The Chief Minister invited Akov to Global Investors' Summit to be held at Indore in October"
The project size is USD 250 million, and the total amount will be financed by the Bank'
It is the largest source of FDI in India at USD 69 billion'
Jaitley also cited the size of the market that India offered'
Trial of the air quality monitoring system, that will be put in place during the 15-day period till April 30, will begin on April 6'
b"Snapdeal said the norms will provide clarity to India's fast growing e-commerce industry"
To promote the use of electric vehicles, the government will exempt road tax on registration of electric'
One of the major factors contributing towards air pollution is the dust raised by vehicles running on roads'
Citizens would no longer be "passive spectators" but would be empowered to be active participants in governance'
Citizens would no longer be "passive spectators" but would be empowered to be active participants in governance'
Jind district in Haryana became the first district in the country to successfully complete the pilot project of linking land records with Aadhaar'
Thanks to the various positive indicators in terms of education, health care and industrial development, Coimbatore had been selected as one of the 20 Smart Cities across the country'
The Home Minister said the two countries are linked by geography, history and culture and the linkages in the field of disaster management have continued to grow beyond boundaries'
The first car-free day was organised from Red Fort to Bhagwan Das Road'
BMC chairman Kishan Kumar said the SPV would have around 19 officers and staff from among whom 6 officers would be on whole time deputation and 13 would be recruited from open market'
Chhibber said the transportation demand will increase in the future with the growth in economic development and migration of people from the rural to urban areas'
Deadline for submission of new SCP before the Centre is April 15, 2016'
The Arvind Kejriwal government had installed such devices at six locations of the capital from January 1 to 15 when the first phase of odd-even scheme was introduced aimed at reducing serious pollution level'
DMRC has been directed to rationalise the metro feeder bus routes during the second phase of odd-even scheme as most existing routes cover 20 km'
b"Influence zone' is an area along the Metro corridors within which a No Objection Certificate (NOC) is required from DMRC for sanctioning of building plans"
The councilors of 104 wards under SDMC will be provided with 100 LEDs each to be installed as per requirements in their respective wards'
The Haryana Urban Development Authority has floated tenders for it and the plan will include all roads of the city maintained by various departments'
Bringing up the rear were Guwahati, Hazrat Nizamuddin (Delhi), Sealdah (West Bengal), Kanpur Central (UP), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh) and Muzaffarpur (Bihar)'
The survey evaluated 21 major cities from 18 states. Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram have jointly been ranked on top among cities in terms of governance and quality of life that is sustainable in the long term, according to a survey released today.'
Goel claimed that this system was not only a seismic switch for on site early warning but capable of releasing early warning of an earthquake'
BMC has imposed 15 per cent cut in water supply which will ensure that water stock for city lasts till coming June'
A monitoring team will be constituted in every zone and the SDMC officials at the headquarters will supervise security from the control room at the Civic Centre'
The solar sector further continues to face a major regulatory challenge, particularly with regard to compliance with RPO norms'
b"New Delhi, Mar 11 (PTI) Providing a one stop solution for availing its services and facilities, NDMC has come out with an app, NDMC311, which will be launched tomorrow by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. People can pay water bill, property tax and estate bill through 'Quick Pay' feature of the app."
The municipal body said the decision has been taken keeping in mind the environment as less books printed would mean less burden on it'
Member of Parliament R K Jena presented the award to AP Genco officials in New Delhi today, a release from the State Energy Conservation Mission here said'
Development came during a meeting between Telangana Panchayat Raj and IT Minister K T Rama Rao and Sulzon CMD Tulsi Tanti in Mumbai'
With a view to encourage small and medium enterprises, the Haryana Government today said it has decided to reserve 20 per cent of its purchases for this sector'
The green project, estimated to cost Rs 3.29 crore, will be borne by IRFC through its CSR funds, according to a release'
b"The vehicles are fully 'Made in India' with an integrated CCTV camera, GPS tracking and other prominent safety features"
The growing need of energy coupled with increasing environmental concern have posed a major challenge and there was a need to explore other non-conventional and renewable sources of energy which are also environment friendly'
Asked about the invitation to Dutt, NDMC Chaimran Naresh Kumar said that many eminent personalities were being approached by the council for the role'
The NDMC has decided to construct decentralised sewage treatment plants in NDMC area at 10 locations with the different capacity of treating sewerage water'
The wheeling and transmission charges are exempted for captive/group captive use within the State'
The next 40 cities would be announced in the second phase and the rest in the third phase'
In the first phase, the dustbins would be installed at public plaza, radial roads and in public corridors'
On the revenue side, he said, \xe2\x80\x9cThough we will continue to look at road projects, our focus will be on water business now.'
The government is also working on developing Ro-Ro services between Dhubri and Hatsinghimari at a cost of Rs 80 crore, he said'
Hartek Power commissioned the 66/11 KV substations for the 24-MW and 4-MW solar projects'
It has set a target of adding 100 gw of solar power by 2022, which includes 40,000 mw from rooftop solar'
The Urban Development Ministry has so far approved a total investment of Rs 20,491 crore under Atal Mission Action Plans for 483 mission cities in 26 states and UTs for 2015-16'
Under the project, each household will be provided two LED bulbs of 9 watts each'
The Minister asked the 20 cities selected for the Smart City Mission to begin the projects by June 25'
The actual energy saving per bulb has been 73.7 unit on an average, as against the projected 55.65 units'
The Ministry will release Rs 200 crore for each of the 20 selected cities only after the SPVs are set up'
b"The Center's investment will be matched by state governments and used to catalyse private-sector investment"
The project is being introduced in the upcoming academic session 2016-17 in 30 NDMC schools in 444 classes'
b"TERI said the green buildings assume greater importance as India's 'Smart Cities' initiative mandates 80 per cent buildings in the shortlisted cities to be green"
The ENVIS portal will run parallel with Digital India Objective and aid the efforts for improving digital literacy in the environment sector'
Karnataka has emerged as one of the most preferred FDI destinations for global firms'
Modi said such re-developed railway stations would become iconic structures and centres of economic activity, it added'
Gadkari had said that a total of Rs 2 lakh crore will be spent on expanding as well as building new roads in Maharashtra in next five years. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari today said the Centre is planning to invest Rs 3 lakh crore on infrastructure development in Maharashtra over the next three years.'
The transmission and distribution sector would see an investment of USD 50 billion by 2020, the minister said.'
Power generated through solar panels can be supplied to state-run APGenco by linking the transmission to its grid, he said'
b"As per the list of cleanest cities announced by the Union Urban Development Ministry as part of its 'Swachh Sarvekshan' (Cleanliness Survey), 'top mover' award has been conferred on Bhubaneswar"
Visakhapatnam Port Trust has already commissioned 2 MW solar capacity and will add another 8 MW by March 20, he said at a roadshow here ahead of Maritime India Summit 2016, to be held in Mumbai in April'
Rai further said that government will only engage buses of private operators who had given their buses in good numbers to it during the first phase of odd-even scheme to accommodate extra rush of passengers'
b"As per the government's plan, 1,000 buses to be run under cluster system will hit the roads from April-May while 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses will start plying from August"
Nath said that it has been decided to cover seven clusters including 5 from non-tribal and 2 from tribal areas in the first phase'
The projects to be undertaken by NDMC have been divided into two broad categories -- 29 area-based projects and nine pan-city projects'
We will be rolling out a Information Technology policy and Labour policy to give a further boost to industrial sector and to provide employability'
These were part of the latest guidelines issued by the Home Ministry, on disaster warning and response of the authorities, and circulated to all states'
The President said citizens of this country have a right to lead a healthy, happy and productive life'
The next phase of odd-even scheme will be introduced after the CBSE Board examinations'
India and Australia should come together and invest in several fields, with energy being an important dimension'
The department was asked to include at least 90 per cent city residents in the projects by simplifying the tax collection process'
The court observed that the state-run buses are not clean, toilets at the bus stands are in a pathetic condition and these things dissuade people from using the MSRTC buses'
Goyal is heading a delegation of senior officials for the India Australia Energy Dialogue'
I am quite confident that this message will go to all the airports in India and we shall make an effort, encouraged by the good work done by Kochi International airport'
The Cabinet has decided to complete 7 major irrigation projects by allocating Rs 10,000 crore additional funds to make AP a drought-free state'
Housing is a priority subject for my government and a new housing policy will be announced very soon'
Railways generate a substantial amount of solid waste by passengers, visitors, vendors and staff. The solid waste consists of biodegradable as well as non-biodegradable materials'
All the 1,100 personnel will undergo six weeks of primary training at SRPF campus in Vadodara, the release added'
The Minister said the country, in this pursuit, will also hold the first Asian Ministerial conference in Delhi in November this year for disaster risk reduction'
Digital India will present American businesses with an opportunity to sell their products towards new high-speed internet and digital infrastructure in India'
Of the 9,700 metric tonnes of waste generated daily in Mumbai, around 2,700 metric tonnes comprises construction waste and silt.'
According to Deloitte, nearly USD 120 billion will come from the private sector.'
b"Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur of Madhya Pradesh are included in the list of 20 cities, which would be developed as 'Smart Cities' in the first phase of the programme."
At the request of central government, each state government nominated the urban areas or greenfield sites it wished to be considered for smart city funding.'
Naidu said that the selection process was as rigorous as the civil services examination process, and that the competition had been designed in a manner to check the \xe2\x80\x9cbest possible contenders\xe2\x80\x9d'
Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu announced the first list of 20 cities today that will be developed to have basic infrastructure.'
The project envisions smooth traffic and waste managements in other areas as well'
Making its cut through a rigorous competition, NDMC area is among the 20 cities which were announced winners of the Smart City Challenge'
The model skill centre by Centurion University of Technology and Management here was inaugurated by Rajiv Pratap Rudy, Union Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship'
Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation mayor Anant Narayan Jena said it was a matter of pride that Bhubaneswar has secured the top position in the list.'
b"Three MoUs were signed under the 'Smart city' theme for city-specific urban development between French Development Agency (AFD) with the state governments for the cities of Chandigarh, Nagpur and Puducherry."
There are 97 cities in the Smart City Challenge, and the names of the first 20 winners of the competition will be announced tomorrow, Naidu said.'
The state has notched up exports of Rs 68,258 crore in the IT sector with as many as 1,300 IT firms, including 500 global companies, having their operations'
b"When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 'Smart City' plan, we were confident that Chandigarh would get selected in the first phase"
Hollande also pledged 300 million Euros to develop solar energy in next five years.'
The Government will provide 100 per cent subsidy to Government and semi-Government offices (for setting up solar power units), while for private sector it will be 15 per cent subsidy.'
A joint Venture between Indian SITAC group and EDF Energie Nouvelles was signed to acquire 50 per cent stake in its renewable energy business in Gujarat.'
b"At a function here, he set out Delhi's development model and said there is need to first create smart people and smart city will then follow."
While 20 cities will be selected this month, 40 each will be get the nod in the next two years.'
Terming his visit to India as "exceptional", he said France and India were committed to take forward all the promises agreed upon between the two nations.'
As many as eight MoUs were signed on Friday with top Chinese companies to set up a USD 10 billion industrial park and smart cities in the state.'
b"The 'Smart City' proposal submitted by BMC has far lower estimate even than that of Aurangabad city, which is around Rs 1,595.5 crore."
The MoUs were signed during the Investment Roadshow organised here, attended by representatives of more than 100 top notch Chinese companies.'
Personnel of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and Fire department would be given training in the proposed institute.'
The decision to pull out Delhi barely a few months before its fate was to be decided at the 39th Session of the World Heritage Committee in Bonn last year, had left heritage experts and lovers disheartened.'
The stations would be installed across the city, mostly at crowded places such as markets and bus stand.'
Once the state cabinet approves the policy, Energy department will install solar heaters having capacity of 318.75 lakh litres in government hostels.'
Noting that energy efficiency is a key focus area of the government, Union Environment Secretary Ashok Lavasa said that more sectors are being included in the ambit of energy- efficient processes and targets are being "intensified"'
The two-day conference is being jointly organised by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Department of Electronics and Information Technology and Maharashtra government, an official release said.'
The two nations will work together for developing an India-UK partnership fund under the umbrella of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) recently created in India.'
The Road Transport and Highways minister said the plan to set up new ports would definitely add to the economic growth.'
According to NCRPB Member-Secretary, B K Tripathy, this was the highest loan assistance approved in a single meeting of the Board.'
Naidu is accompanied by a large delegation comprising Ministers and officials from the state. He interacted with representatives of leading Swiss companies at Zurich.'
The project would be implemented on a PPP model, Goel said adding the SER has already invited tenders where private parties would have role in designing, engineering,procurement, commissioning and looking after generation from the Solar photovoltaic system'
Rajendra said that with the introduction of the system, response time for redressal of grievances has been reduced besides helping to minimise crime and provide security to the people.'
Managing Executive Officer of Mizuho Bank Tatsufumi Sakai and Managing Director Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Sudhir Rajpal exchanged the papers of the MoU in the presence of visiting Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.'
Jaitley began his three-day UK visit with an interaction with a select group of persons of Indian-origin who are associated with India-UK businesses yesterday.'
According to the minister, BSNL will provide landline phone and internet connections to 13 akhadas of seers during Simhastha.'
SDRF will have six companies, stationed in Vizag, Vizianagaram, Kakinada, Mangalagiri, Venkatagiri (Nellore) and Kurnool.'
World has become aware of it in its own way. How to connect with nature, how to balance life with nature is a major challenge before the world. Recently, the resolution passed at CoP-21 has this essence of Indian philosophy.'
Officials said 200 remote villages in Narayanpatna, Bandhugaon and Boipariguda blocks would be lit up using solar power. Out of 71 identified villages in Narayanpatna, the administration has installed 274 street lights in 26 villages.'
Sulabh, which engages over 50,000 people, has constructed nearly 1.3 million household toilets and 54 million government funded ones, with nearly 15 million people using toilets based on the Sulabh design aimed at promoting hygienic sanitation at low cost.'
According to team members, the nationwide survey on the status of cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was concluded in 75 cities late last year.'
b"The plan for modernisation of the two stations is part of a railways' initiative to redevelop 400 major stations across the country."
The steel plant obtained the environmental clearance earlier and the PSU sought clearance from the MoEF for the pellet plant also.'
With a provision of Rs 187.71 crore for education services, NDMC has announced to develop smart classrooms, provide e-learning solutions in NDMC schools and make the curriculum digitally available to facilitate teaching. The smart classroom project will also include virtual-labs, interactive white boards and digital library.'
Electricity and Education Minister T Thiagarajan yesterday distributed LED bulbs to each of 1,850 families and beneficiaries hailed from Irulanchanthai, Kuruvinathampet and Bahoorpet in the Bahoor commune panchayat limits.'
India has provided unique digital identification to nearly one billion people in five years, and increased access and reduced corruption in public services'
As many as 726 dangerous spots have been located in the country and Rs 11,000 crore have been allocated for preventive measures, he said, adding the target was to reduce the road accidents by 50 per cent.'
Currently India has only 3.5 per cent skilled manpower against 95 per cent in Korea, 78 per cent in Japan and 75 per cent in Germany'
There will be nine zones in Itanagar and four zones in Naharlagun to ensure complete cleanliness drive where every stakeholder will render one hour of social service in the morning during the fortnight'
The benefits of the application included, boosting tourism, catering not just to awareness about important government schemes for the public and also offer basic and important details of public and emergency services available'
Mapping for the first phase of smart grid project has been done. Electricity lines to be covered by this project would be made underground'
Noting that wi-fi services are crucial to connect India, Prasad said that state-owned telecom firm BSNL plans to install 2,500 wi-fi hotspots at 256 places by the next fiscal'
Lauding them for their efforts made without any government support, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said they have set an example for others to follow.'
The proposed World Bank funding, with a state government commitment of USD 90 million, will address to some extent the huge investment requirements of the state in developing urban infrastructure and strengthening relevant state-level urban sector institutions.'
People can visit public grievance website--www.pgportal.nic.in-- to file their complaints. The grievance can be filed against any government organisation in the country through this portal.'
Addressing the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association here, Naidu expressed the hope that Parliament will be able to pass the new taxation law in the Budget Session.'
As a pilot project, solar energy lamps have been installed in Desapriya Park at a cost of Rs 40 lakh and the monthly power bill there has been slashed from Rs 50,000 to Rs 8,000'
As a pilot project, solar energy lamps have been installed in Desapriya Park at a cost of Rs 40 lakh and the monthly power bill there has been slashed from Rs 50,000 to Rs 8,000'
State government had earlier decided to distribute 10,000 solar pumps to farmers in the 18 drought-affected districts of Marathwada, Vidarbha and western Maharashtra region'
Initially around 700 MW of "green" energy will be procured and claimed it to be the "largest private sector green bid in India" under guidelines of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.'
The year 2015 marked a landmark in urban development sector with the launch of new mission and 2016 marks the beginning of implementation challenges with the Central and State Governments and urban local bodies required to "walk the talk" together.'
More than 70 dilapidated buildings have been demolished and over 1700 families and 400 businesses have been vacated from Bhendi Bazaar, according to the CEO of SBUT, Abbas Master'
The citizen portal is being developed under the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) project'
b"Vying for the 'smart city' tag, the New Delhi Municipal Council has opted for a public competition to select the design for its proposed 'smart public toilets', in which local residents can also participate"
In a connected world that constantly prompts us for more information, ostensibly to demystify our own lives, privacy is fast-becoming a confused state of mind'
Rs 56.7 crore has been allotted for the initial phase, for this financial year, under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation'
The plan that has been finalised with the consensus of mobile manufacturers will help address the issues of women security as both new and existing phones will be able to install the enhanced feature'
State government, pre-occupied with management of floods in Chennai and other parts of the State, has accordingly sought time from the Ministry to submit Smart City Proposals'
b"Swachh Survekshan is UD Ministry's flagship clean city survey, covering 75 cities, aiming to assess the cleanliness level in Urban India and the work carried out by the respective municipalities"
With authorised capital of $100 bn, Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will invest in sectors including energy, transportation and urban construction'
At present, the e-voting facility is available only for voters of all the eight municipal corporations in the state'
The Solar dome, first of its kind in the country, will also act as a museum displaying various usages of the unconventional energy'
b"The programme 'Start-up India, Stand-up India' is aimed at promoting bank financing for start-up ventures and offer incentives to boost entrepreneurship"
MoUD aims to sensitise residents on responsible disposal of garbage in order to facilitate proper waste management, waste segregation and efficient waste processing through these drives'
A Gurgaon based on-demand rental platform for renting premium furniture, furnishing and appliances has raised seed funding from Citrus Pay\xe2\x80\x99s cofounder Jitendra Gupta'
The government had imposed the Swachh Bharat cess with effect from November 15 to fund the mission'
Pradeep Pendse on the various layers of using data to make cities more responsive to their citizens\xe2\x80\x99 needs'
Social polarisation in a country like India demands that tech-enabled urbanisation promote inclusiveness and not segregation'
Union Cabinet has approved the construction of first phase of the Lucknow Metro Rail Project at an estimated cost of Rs 6,928 crore'
b"The national capital observed its third 'car-free day' in as many months, which was the first on a weekday, as the government gears up to roll out the odd-even scheme"
The central government has approved an assistance of Rs 678 crore to build houses in Telangana, for people belonging to economically-weaker sections'
The government will move towards common mobility cards for travelling in both DTC buses and the Metro, once e-ticketing machines are installed'
Energy sector contributes nearly 60 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, followed by electricity, industry, agriculture and other sectors, says Prakash Javadekar'
The announced package will be used for various infrastructure works in the state including conversion of state roads into national highways and laying of a railway line'
The service aims to minimise the response time to 10 minutes for two wheelers and 15 minutes for four wheelers in urban areas'
Three districts of Haryana, Rewari, Faridabad and Sonipat, will be connected with National Optical Fibre Network (NOFN) by February 2016'
The World Bank will also provide $25 million technical assistance in parallel to build the capacity of select state governments to ensure widespread usage of toilets by rural households'
The Joint Committee of Parliament will seek a fresh extension as most of the states are yet to respond to the questionnaire sent to them on various clauses of the bill'
The telecom wing of the Indian Railways, RailTel, had signed an agreement with the subsidiary of Google India to provide wi-fi facilities at 400 stations across the country'
The number of smart grid deployments will be determined by the scale of technology advancements and supportive government policies, says Frost & Sullivan'
b"Punjab Government has constituted the State Level Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee (SLSMC) to provide houses to every citizen under 'Housing for All' policy"
The app also features an auto messaging service to all concerned including the State Transport Authority, National Crime Record Bureau, State Crime Record Bureau and all SSPs in India for search of vehicle'
Out of 497 cities identified under the Atal Mission, city-level plans of 23 mission cities across Delhi, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and the north-eastern states are still to be approved'
b"Rajasthan became the first state to submit the Smart City proposal for it's nominated cities to the Ministry of Urban Development"
British cyber security expert CHARLES BROOKSON shares his views with BWSC, on a recent visit to New Delhi'
Luis Jorge Romero, Director-General, European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) speaks to BWSC on smart cities, standards and more'
b"Gujarat International Finance Tec-City has launched Phase - II development, wherein focus will be on the country's first International Financial Services Centre being set up in the GIFT SEZ area"
Smart City plans for 15 cities spread across six states and the Union Territory of Puducherry have been submitted to the Urban Development Ministry'
b"Rajasthan has become the first state to submit Smart City proposals, for it's nominated three cities, to the Ministry of Urban Development"
The final draft of climate deal proposes limiting global warming to 2 degrees Celsius and committing $100 billion a year from 2020 to help developing countries in coping with the problem'
Security, convenience and energy efficiency will be the largest drivers for smart homes followed by comfort and prestige, according to a study conducted by Schneider Electric India'
A slew of mega projects worth over Rs 4 lakh crore, in the next seven years, besides proposed amendments in real estate rules marked 2015 for the urban development sector'
b"C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group is a network of the world's mega-cities committed to addressing climate change"
Uber is looking at enabling private car owners in the city to car pool in order to meet the heavy demand expected once the Delhi government implements its odd-even scheme'
Commuters will be able to book autorickshaws and taxis via PuchO App during a 15-day trial of odd-even scheme, starting January 1'
Along with this, Centre would provide 10 percent extra funds if the Corporation succeeds in meeting the reforms in a stipulated time period'
The LED bulbs have been distributed at discounted price, in various circles of Rajasthan, under the Domestic Efficient Lighting Programme of Ministry of Power'
The proposed Comprehensive Mobility Plan, including Monorail Service and Bus Rapid Transit for Jammu, shall be implemented phase wise at an estimated cost of Rs 16,632 crore'
b"The Maharashtra government, in it's State Annual Action Plan under AMRUT, has proposed setting up of solar power systems as an integral part of water supply projects"
Much like selling old newspapers, a decentralised model of organic waste management can help organisations and households save money and effort while helping them reduce their carbon footprint'
b"The country is also willing to share it's expertise in solar energy, water recycling for urban and rural areas with Goa, says Israel's Consul General David Akov"
The Real Estate Bill, an initiative to promote fair play in real estate transactions and to ensure timely execution of projects, will now be taken up for consideration and passing by the Parliament'
The state government will introduce a pilot project to run six electric buses between Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad to reduce pollution, says Gujarat Transport Minister Vijay Rupani'
b"SDMC has signed an MoU with Power Ministry's Energy Efficiency Services Limited whereby all the two lakh street lights in the municipal area will be replaced by LEDs"
The city government, in a radical step to curb air pollution, had announced that private vehicles bearing odd and even registration numbers will be allowed to ply only on alternate days'
Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has directed 33 districts of the state to compete with each other in reducing their carbon footprints'
Is vanishing obscurity in modern cities taking us closer to a data utopia or a dystopian version of urban life where preserving our privacy is no longer a choice?'
With its ability to manage complexity, Government Enterprise Architecture has emerged as the essential means to drive public sector transformation'
Innovative ideas to build and finance sustainable infrastructure for Smart Cities need to go beyond collecting tolls and imposing burdensome taxes'
The Smart Cities and Digital India initiatives have opened up business opportunities for the private sector but are we serious enough about what needs to be done?'
It\xe2\x80\x99s time now to give large, unwieldy metropolises in India the attention they deserve'
The logistics sector, on the cusp of witnessing its biggest growth spurt yet, will play a crucial role in building India\xe2\x80\x99s Smart Cities'
The smart cities planned by the government will use nearly 1.6 billion of connected things by 2016, an increase of 39 percent from 2015, says Gartner'
A post of Joint Secretary in the MoUD has been created with an aim to enable focused monitoring and coordination of mission activities with all the states and union territories'
The first Development Plan-2034, presented by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, was scraped in April this year after receiving flak for being ridden with flaws'
b"As per the MoU signed, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has mandated European Business and Technology Centre as the 'Handholding Agency' for the project"
UP government has earmarked the amount for improving water supply and sewerage and providing green spaces and parks in 60 cities under AMRUT Action Plan for 2015-16'
The telecom wing of the Indian Railway, RailTel, has signed an agreement with the subsidiary of Google India to provide Wi-Fi facilities at 400 stations across the country'
To curb air pollution that has assumed "critical" level, Delhi govt has announced for private vehicles bearing odd and even registration numbers to ply only on alternate days, starting January, barring emergency services'
15,01,417 Citizens posted their comments, views and suggestions besides voting in response to various proposals of cities included in the Smart City Mission via MyGov.in'
Delhi government will install LED bulbs in streetlighting as part of its efforts to significantly reduce energy consumption, says Power Minister Satyender Jain'
The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has floated a consultation paper for the effective implementation of BharatNet, for which the cost of rolling out would be $70 billion'
b"The central government has accepted Delhi government's proposal to release Rs 125 crore from its 'Nirbhaya Fund' for installation of CCTV cameras in DTC buses"
b"The Delhi government has tabled the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission's report, recommending measures to improve the financial situation of all three municipal corporations"
The funds released are a part of the total central assistance committed to 13 states, for which MoUD has approved Atal Mission Action Plans for 2015-16'
b"The smart city project of Navi Mumbai's City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) will be self-financed and is expected to be completed by 2019"
b"India's climate change actions, as per it's recently submitted INDC, will require around $2.5 trillion in the next 15 years, says  Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar"
Face detection, number plate identification and data analysis system facilities will also be available after the entire project is completed, says Chief Minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis'
For 54 percent of respondents, spend on cyber defences is less than five percent of the IT spend, as per the new KPMG Cybercrime Survey Report 2015'
India will provide land and contribute about $30 million to build the secretariat infrastructure for the initiative that brings together developed and developing countries, announces Indian PM'
Environment ministry has requested the three states to make ULBs and other regulatory agencies specifically responsible to ensure that burning of waste is not resorted to'
The Cabinet Committee on Infrastructure in Maharashtra has given in-principle approval to eight projects across the state amounting to Rs 53,701 crore'
Environment ministry has requested the three states to make ULBs and other regulatory agencies specifically responsible to ensure that burning of waste is not resorted to'
The new mobile application will enable people to register their complaints with pics of potholes on roads, dysfunction of street lights, parts of buildings in poor conditions'
Twenty countries, including India, will launch an initiative to double their clean energy R&amp;D budget over the next five years as part of global efforts to tackle climate change'
A number of countries including Canada, Britain and Australia have pledged nearly $2.5 billion to help the poor countries, of the Commonwealth bloc, fight global warming'
Centre has approved a working plan for Chhattisgarh where a total of nine cities would receive a major infrastructural facelift under the AMRUT mission'
For the project, around 1,400 CCTV cameras will be set up in the south zone, comprising areas in Central and South Mumbai, in the first phase'
The approved investment will boost urban infrastructure, including enhancing the water supply, sewerage network, non-motorised transportation system and availability of public spaces'
According to the report, sectors like cement, iron and steel, supplying crucial inputs to the construction industry, are expected to be the biggest beneficiaries of the Housing for All programme'
The government has set a target of 4,460 MW of power generation capacity addition this fiscal from renewable energy sources, including solar, wind and small-hydro'
The Skill Training for Employability Leveraging Public Private Partnership project will be implemented in mission mode and is aligned with the overall objectives of the National Skill Development Mission'
According to results by the World Economic Forum, nearly 60 percent of consumers are willing to travel in a fully self-driving vehicle'
The solar alliance, to be named as International Agency for Solar Policy and Application, will act as a platform for countries to share technologies as opposed to relying on costly transfers from the EU and US'
Around Rs 7,379.30 crore will be transferred to PRIs, ULBs will get around Rs 5,413.47 crore during the five year period, as per the recommendation of the fourth Finance Commission'
India is among the top 10 countries with most e-residency applications'
In a first, all SAARC countries came together for a massive field training exercise on combating an earthquake - like disaster'
The approved projects would be taken up further with the MoEF for funding under the National Adaptation Fund on Climate Change'
b"A 'Swachh Maharashtra Kosh' will be set up as a part of 'Swachh Maharashtra Abhiyan' (Urban and Rural) for implementation of the cleanliness drive in the state"
The Ministry of Women & Child Development project is aimed at making public transport safer and women-friendly'
In order to spur investment in the housing sector, the government is considering to provide tax incentives for certain projects to ensure \xe2\x80\x98Housing for All\xe2\x80\x99 by 2022'
Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu has called for radical changes in urban planning to ensure reliable, efficient and affordable public transport'
At present, the government holds a Car-Free Day on the 22nd of every month on separate stretches of the National Capital'
The Indian Railways Chair for Sustainable Mobility would focus on the use of energy efficient technology and green energy initiatives'
MoUD will give the funds to Delhi government, NDMC and DDA to decongest the city'
Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have claimed the city is fast losing its green cover with unprecedented urbanisation'
The program enables speci\xef\xac\x81c and tailored interactions with successful entrepreneurs through focused mentoring sessions and facilitates market access for selected startups'
Two from Maharashtra and one city from Madhya Pradesh will see improvements in traffic, education, and infrastructure'
MoUD has asked states and ULBs to make provisions for piped natural gas and CNG stations in nominated Smart Cities'
The Indian Green Building Council and the Gujarat Institute of Housing & Estate Developers have pledged a 10 million sq.ft. of green building footprint in the next three years in the state'
The HUPA Ministry will ensure availability of land, with respective state governments providing the same as their share for affordable housing'
b"Over the past 12 months, witnessing a 66 percent growth, India's installed solar capacity is almost equivalent to what the country had added in the past three years combined, according to a consultancy firm Bridge to India"
The multilateral body Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank is tasked with financing infrastructure construction across Asia'
Crime and Criminal Tracking Network Systems project will interconnect about 15,000 police stations across the country and digitise data related to FIR registration, investigation and charge sheets'
The Centre has asked ULBs to introduce a clause in the bylaws making it mandatory to install rooftop solar plants'
While municipal corporations will be allocated an additional fund of Rs 10 crore, municipalities and nagar panchayats will be given Rs 5 crore and Rs 2 crore respectively'
JICA has extended around Rs 580 crore to the Ganga Action Plan project for construction of sewers, community toilets, pumping stations and sewage treatment plants in the city'
A paradigm shift in disaster management from a relief centric approach to a holistic one, encompassing preparedness, prevention, mitigation and risk reduction, is being initiated, says the Union Home Minister'
A policy framework around the Internet of Things is in the consultation stage, for India to have 5-6 %s hare in the $300 bn global IoT industry, says JS Deepak'
A special mobile application called Swachh Delhi Abhiyan has been launched to ensure effective implementation of the mission in the national capital and rid the city of garbage and debris'
b"Pledging to quadruple India's renewable power capacity to 175 GW by 2022, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked world's top economies to ensure reaching the target of $100 billion a year green climate fund by 2020"
The investments in 81 cities will be made under AMRUT action plans for the current year to enhance basic infrastructure including water supply and sewerage connections'
The Rajasthan government has inked 14 agreements in the housing and infrastructure sectors as a part of its initiative to promote planned urbanisation in the state'
A report by Dun & Bradstreet says it\xe2\x80\x99s important for smart cities to be planned for vertical expansion given the pressure of migration on city resources'
Gujarat Government will soon begin implementation of Smart City projects in the state\xe2\x80\x99s six selected cities, says Chief Minister Anandiben Patel'
The Swachh Bharat cess will be levied only on the portion of taxable services, after abatement, for financing and promoting Swachh Bharat initiatives'
The deal is aimed at encouraging the research, development and eventual deployment of clean technology, renewables, gas and nuclear energy'
A new company is being formed with the MoUD in which the Delhi and Central governments would each have an equal partnership'
A multi-pronged strategy is needed to resolve issues of traffic congestion and pollution in urban areas, suggests the Urban Development Minister'
Three UK-India city partnerships with Indore, Pune and Amravati have been announced to support India\xe2\x80\x99s urban development goals'
The state government has proposed to ensure 100 percent coverage of all urban households with water supply and sewerage network services in the next four to five years'
Smart City plans will be evaluated by MoUD on the basis of credibility, feasibility and citizen engagement for selection of the first batch of 20 cities'
KOICHIRO KOIDE, Managing Director, NEC India, shares his thoughts with BWSC on smart cities, security and unique solutions for a country moving full-steam ahead'
Major Manjit Rajain, Group Chairman - Tenon Group, shares his views on public safety, security industry trends and smart cities, in an interview with BWSC'
Gartner predicts that by 2016, 6.4 billion devices will be connected to the internet and 5.5 million new things will join them each day'
b"Government proposes to promote analytical research and related activities in the state and aims to promote the 'Samriddhi Kalyani Analytics City'"
The dedicated traffic helpline will provide information about real-time traffic movement and allow citizens to lodge complaints'
Convergence Communications and Broadband Technologies, under the Department of IT and Electronics, will finance indigenous projects on developing 5G, wearables, IoT and other high-end tech'
b"The country's wind power capacity will grow by 2,800 MW this fiscal on the back of strong policy support to independent power producers (IPP) and non-IPP segments, says ICRA"
The state-owned Energy Efficiency Services (EESL) will implement the programme where all consumers are eligible for 3 LED bulbs per domestic household'
Launched by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, twin-coloured dustbins will be provided under it to every household for collecting wet and dry waste separately'
Two green corridors were created simultaneously in the city, probably for the first time in the country, for separate transportation of organs'
The Prime Minister was apprised of the progress made in sectors such as energy, telecommunication, piped natural gas, irrigation, roads and railways'
b"All school inspectors and teachers in Malda district will be equipped with the mobile app, being launched by United Nations Children's Fund, to monitor sanitation initiatives"
The amount would be used for road and highway projects, including projects under Bharat Mala, for better connectivity and upgradation of important highways, among other projects'
b"The UN's Green Climate Fund has approved its first financing of projects worth $168 million to help developing countries fight global warming"
The amount includes 11 MoUs worth Rs 968 crore for manufacturing electronic components at the EMC being developed at Naya Raipur, the country\xe2\x80\x99s first Greenfield capital smart city'
In its recently-submitted INDCs, India has committed to achieve 40 percent cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil-fuel-based energy resources by 2030'
The aim of the exercise is to build interoperability among SAARC member countries to undertake joint disaster response operations in cooperation with each other'
The state government aims to improve basic infrastructure including water supply, sewage network and urban transport in 32 cities and towns under AMRUT in the current FY'
The Indian data centre infrastructure market is expected to reach $2 billion in 2016, a 5.2 percent increase over 2015, according to Gartner'
A tripartite agreement has been signed between the Punjab Government, National University of Singapore (NUS) and CII to collaborate and conduct joint research on ease of doing business in the state'
b"Microsoft's new cloud start-up initiative is anticipated to impact over 50 smart cities in the next year through a catalogue of over 50 start- ups and ISV solutions"
System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, has recorded Delhi\'s air quality as "very poor" as the level of particulate matters spiked across the city'
The government is expected to put in place a new "single window" clearance mechanism for faster approvals, says the Urban Development Minister'
Delhi\xe2\x80\x99s PWD has been assigned to scrap the controversial BRT corridor and will soon float tenders to choose a company for dismantling the corridor'
The 60-article Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) agreement outlines financial shares of founding members, rules for policymaking, governance structure and business and operational systems'
b"The drive aims at seeking people's suggestions and solutions on improving water supply, cleanliness, garbage disposal and overall administration"
Five Swedish companies have decided to partner with Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) to share Swedish technologies in renewable energy sector'
The Union government has announced Rs 10,000-crore road and bridges development projects for Nagaland besides committing a slew of road projects for the entire North-East over a five year period'
b"The advisory against sharing personal data on email and phone comes at the end of ITRs filing season, an opportune time for hackers and fraudsters to launch attempts at compromising users' vital data"
This was clarified by the MoUD at a meeting with state Urban Development Secretaries and Municipal Commissioners of nominated cities from nine states'
'
'
The new website of National Clean Development Mechanism Authority (NCDMA), which gives approval for CDM projects like energy efficiency and solid waste management, will help capture the entire life cycle of projects'
Pitching for green power, the Indian Railways have set up 1 mw solar power plant at Katra station, that can save up to Rs 1 cr annually on energy bills and significant reduction of carbon dioxide at rail premises'
Facebook will spend Rs 5 crore per annum for sponsoring these 100 wi-fi hotspots, being set up by BSNL selected vendor Quad Zen, in the country'
The Government of Maharashtra has set a target to achieve a complete open defecation-free status by 2018'
b"As per the agreement, CII will work with the state's urban development department and other stakeholders in developing the vision, setting goals and charting strategies for four urban locations in West Bengal"
Delhi Metro Rail Corporation\xe2\x80\x99s total energy savings in the years 2013 & 2014 has totaled up to Rs 13.55 crores'
The Visakhapatnam Port Trust plans to commission a 10-MW solar power plant, with an estimated project cost of Rs 60 crore, by March 2016 in two phases'
A sum of Rs 23.41 crore has been released to various Urban Local Bodies under the Swachh Bharat Mission for the construction of Individual Household Latrine (IHL)'
The land for highways would have to be acquired within a stipulated timeframe by the states, says NHIDC Managing Director'
b"The annual Airport IT Trends Survey indicated that operators are looking to develop 'smart airports' over the next three years with IT playing a major role in shaping them up"
The pact between National Disaster Response Force and National Remote Sensing Centre will allow the Force with geo-spatial and other satellite data for sharpening its relief and rescue operations'
The government has set an ambitious target of constructing 11 lakh affordable houses in Mumbai and seven lakh outside its metropolitan area'
b"According to University of Surrey study, the world's most polluted city suffers a toxic blend of geography, growth, poor energy sources and unfavourable weather"
Not only have radio cabs \xe2\x80\x93 and now, cab aggregators like Uber and Ola \xe2\x80\x93 changed the way we travel, they have changed a way of life. Will counterintuitive regulations dial back the clock on competitive urban mobility options?'
b"In 2004, it took 127 days to start a business in India and in 2005, this has been reduced to 29 days, according to the World Bank's annual report 'Doing Business 2016'"
Backed by its technology prowess and a robust startup ecosystem, India is uniquely poised to build the next set of futuristic cities'
Aiming to ensure time-bound, hassle-free clearances, the government has decided to come out with the necessary notifications by the end of next month for streamlining approvals for urban construction projects'
b"The winning project 'E-waste: From Toxic to Green' revolves around preventing greenhouse gas emissions due to mass burning of electronic waste in Delhi NCR while promoting green livelihoods for urban waste-pickers"
Under the scheme, the Chhattisgarh government would develop 26,908 houses with an expenditure of about Rs 1,900 crore while the Centre would allocate an aid of Rs 190 crore'
The Rs 333-crore fiber grid project is meant to provide three services of video, internet and telephone at the doorstep in the state by March 2016'
Comprehensive action plans under Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) for eight missions cities have been approved at a total cost of Rs 431 crore'
The new solar power policy will allow residents to install solar panels on rooftops of their households to meet the shortage of electricity in the national capital'
The Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation is working with other ministries to create a mechanism for fast tracking approvals to housing projects,  says the Urban Development Minister'
The proposed pact focuses on adopting best construction management practices for housing and infrastructure sectors and developing a range of solutions in a cross-cultural context between Assam and Australia'
A committee of roof-top solar promotion committee has been formed and its members will visit every household and create awareness on solar power generation, says Lok Sabha MP K Hari Babu'
Delhi Police is set to launch a facility named "track me" in its existing SOS application called HIMMAT which was launched earlier this year'
The Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation is working with other ministries to create a mechanism for fast tracking approvals to housing projects,  says the Urban Development Minister'
Along with this, as many as 418 existing sub-stations would be augmented and 3,171-km transmission and distribution lines would be laid in the next three years to strengthen the power infrastructure in the state'
The transport department will install CCTV cameras at a few locations on pilot basis to identify errant vehicles plying without \xe2\x80\x98Pollution Under Control\xe2\x80\x99 certificates'
Delhi government and the University of Chicago will conduct a two-month-long challenge inviting ideas to improve air and water quality in the capital'
'
'
'
'
b"The new capital of Andhra Pradesh that is being planned as a 'futuristic' world-class city with expertise from Japan and Singapore could cost of in excess of $ two billion to build"
b"To encourage the city residents to use public transport and reduce pollution and traffic congestion, the Delhi government will observe 'Car-Free Day' on separate road stretches on the 22nd of every month"
Can India implement Prime Minister Narendra Modi\xe2\x80\x99s visionary urban development programmes? The answer lies in building capacities'
The human dimension, linked with culture and heritage is more important than built environment, as is giving an identity to the city under the Smart Cities Mission'
Gaurav Dwivedi, CEO of MyGov.in \xe2\x80\x93 the Government of India\xe2\x80\x99s crowdsourcing platform under the Department of Electronics & IT (DeitY) \xe2\x80\x93 tells BWSC why the best way to solve problems is to throw them open to the public'
Foreign investors and the government have a common objective \xe2\x80\x93 to develop strong and sustainable islands of excellence that are also safe and viable investments, says Ashok Bajpai - MD, G4S'
"Building Indian cities is an opportunity unlike any other on the planet, the greatest in the history of mankind", says Ranbir S. Das - Chairman, Fairwood Group'
Convergence of ICT with electronics and sensor technologies is playing a crucial role in establishing a connected living environment, finds Frost & Sullivan'
b"BRICS investment in flagship programmes like 'Make in India', 'Skill India' has been invited, with a strong pitch being made to remove structural impediments to boost trade"
An interview with Anant Maheshwari, President, Honeywell India'
Government has approved an agreement between India and Mozambique for technical bilateral cooperation and investment promotion in the area of new and renewable energy'
The Delhi government has decided to install CCTV cameras and provide Wi-Fi facility to commuters travelling in Delhi Transport Corporation buses by December this year'
Sweden is ready to collaborate with Maharashtra government to offer its expertise in fields of waste, digital, urban land management and urban transportation says Swedish Minister Mehmet Kaplan'
CyberDome, coming up in the premises of IT hub Technopark, will be the first such high tech public-private partnership centre in the country'
Taking a cue from European cities to promote public transport, cycling and pedestrian-friendly streets, over 1,200 km of roads in the capital will be redesigned'
The new mobile application, launched by Delhi Development Authority, will allow the housing authority to keep a tab on vacant lands under its jurisdiction'
The three municipal corporations, NDMC, EDMC & SDMC, presently operate and maintain 788 community toilet complexes and 1,931 urinal blocks in different parts of the city'
The Public Works Department have been asked by the government to lit up all dark spots in Delhi and bring a proposal to put CCTV cameras all over the city soon'
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways will invest more than Rs 50,000 crore in Rajasthan for the development of roads and roadside amenities in the next two years, says the Union Transport Minister'
The Construction Industry Development Board of Malaysia has proposed to invest $30 billion in urban development and housing projects in India'
This is the fifth such MoU that CII has signed on Smart Cities, with previous ones being signed separately with the German, US, Indian and Japanese consortiums'
Each state government needs to carefully analyse relevant legislation dealing with urban local bodies to map the powers and functions a ULB can delegate to the SPV under the Smart Cities Mission'
b"The state's postal department has joined hands with state-run operator BSNL and a private company to sell mobile phones through its offices, in line with the Digital India' initiative"
Rajasthan has become the first state to sign MoUs for promoting affordable housing projects with private and public sector companies, says the Urban Development Minister'
The Maharashtra government has been asked to carry out a survey to analyse the movement of passengers during peak and non-peak hours'
Deputy CM Manish Sisodia emphasises need for strict enforcement of existing legislations and NGT directions on dust control at construction sites'
b"The policy, tabled before the state cabinet by the industries department, will bring in new methods like the 'Swiss Challenge' system of procurement to get the best from private players"
The national highway projects where construction has been 50 percent completed till November 2014 will be eligible for this one time financial assistance, according to Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad'
National Mission for a Green India (GIM), falling under the Environment Ministry, has approved annual plans for Kerala, Mizoram, Manipur and Jharkhand'
Gujarat has proposed a Rs 15,375 crore action plan to ensure basic infrastructure in 31 cities of the state under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation in the next five years'
Under the new mission and policy for Housing for All in urban areas, land would be provided free of cost to economically weaker sections, low income groups and slum dwellers to construct houses'
The civic-body has also invited suggestions from the public about their idea of smart city and the changes they would like to include in the proposal'
French Development Agency, AFD, will provide technological support in the areas of water, sanitation, transport and waste management in Puducherry, with Nagpur and Chandigarh being next in line'
16 more waste-to-energy plants are planned and will be commissioned on PPP mode in the next one year in different parts of the country, says Urban Development Minister'
National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd. will invest around Rs 25,000 crore to complete 21 road and bridge projects in Assam over the next five years'
b"The Urban Development Ministry has clarified that the central assistance of Rs 500 crore to each of mission cities can be used for any component of the 'Smart City Plan' conforming to the Mission's guidelines"
The state\xe2\x80\x99s Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu has also asked officials to construct a minimum of 25 houses in each district with prefabricated technology on a pilot basis'
Companies from 14 countries have been selected for preparation of Smart City plans for 42 mission cities, says Union Urban Development Minister'
Installation of energy efficient LED lighting at all Metro stations will result in the company consuming 40 percent less energy and saving Rs 7 crore annually'
The Indore administration successfully created a Green Corridor for the ambulance, carrying the liver, covering a distance of about 10 kms in 10 minutes'
The state government has proposed a plan, at an estimated cost of over Rs 28,756 crore, to provide basic infrastructure relating to water supply, sewerage, urban transport and green spaces'
Odisha government has set a timeline for each of the 34 projects in the railway, national highway, steel and mines and power sectors'
According to a survey by Crisil Ratings, around 50 pc of the under-construction projects are at high risk of not being completed because of significant cost over-runs and weak wherewithal of sponsors'
The government will soon issue an advisory to the states, over the laws governing app-based cabs such as Uber and Ola'
The proposed Act will not only computerise the entire system, eradicate corruption but is also designed to bring greater transparency and benefit for the public, says the Union Minister'
Delhi Government, in association with Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, is setting up a 3 MW ground based Solar Power Plant at the vacant land of Indraprastha Power Station'
The Maharashtra government will provide all the necessary assistance to ensure real estate developments are executed in a time-bound manner says Sudhir Mungantiwar, Minister of Finance & Planning'
An MoU have been signed on an Indo-German solar energy partnership, based on concessional loans in the range of one billion Euros over the next 5 years'
The selected consulting firms will prepare smart city proposals under the supervision of urban local bodies and state governments based on review of previous plans and interventions undertaken'
b"Bloomberg Philanthropies delivers 'Smart Cities Ideas Camp' for hundreds of municipal leaders, in partnership with the Ministry of Urban Development, to help cities in the development of Smart Cities proposals"
About Rs 70,000 crore would be spent on development of major ports, which have received 104 suggestions from international consultants to increase efficiency, says Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport & Highways and Shipping'
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have agreed to enhance ties in key areas of defence manufacturing, trade, intelligence and clean energy'
b"In 2015, the Middle East's Internet of Things combined hardware and revenue is set to reach $1.95 billion, with growth outpacing the global average, according to a report by Deloitte"
New Delhi Municipal Council, selected as one of the 100 smart cities to participate in the Smart City Challenge Stage-2, has launched a cleanliness drive in Connaught Place'
Government will bring all 90,000 autos under the existing PoochO app developed by Delhi Integrated Multi-Model Transit System (DIMTS)'
b"As per preliminary estimates at least $2.5 trillion (at 2014-15 prices) will be required for meeting India's climate change actions between now and 2030, says Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar"
The government is considering introduction of a panic button in cell phones and has asked all mobile phone manufacturers to work out the feasibility of such a feature, says Maneka Gandhi'
Each household of the village Barapitha will have two Solar Home Lighting Systems with the facility to charge mobile phones and other devices'
The government has divided 79 Urban Local Bodies of the state into 15 clusters to adopt an integrated approach for solid waste management'
Government has set a target to convert 4,800 key buildings, all international airports, 75 railway stations, 25 percent of public transport buses and 3000 public-centric websites into disabled friendly services by July next year'
The Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner has asked all the 24 ward offices in the city to make the footpaths free of encroachments by unauthorised hawkers, hotels, furniture shops, among others'
b"Globally, Switzerland has retained its top position as the world's most competitive economy for seventh year in a row and is followed by Singapore, USA, Germany and Netherlands in the top-five"
28,500 hectares of land worth Rs 17,000 crore would be given by the Gujarat government as its share in the Dholera Special Investment Region Development Authority'
According to a report by WinterGreen Research, the worldwide solar panels market is growing as units become more efficient and less costly for generating electricity'
b"Under 'Aao Ab Bus Karein' campaign, the Delhi government will observe a 'Car-Free Day' on October 22 on the road stretch between Red Fort and India Gate"
Delhi Transport Corporation is likely to run buses under cluster scheme, on the lines of Delhi Integrated Multi-Model Transit System, to meet shortage of buses in the national capital'
b"Technopark, India's largest IT park in Thiruvananthapuram, is going green with a first-of-its-kind integrated and centralised waste management plant"
b"The 'Car-Free-Thursday' initiative launched in the IT corridor in the city aims to reduce the number of vehicles on road to 'free up' space and also solve parking problems in the various IT companies"
There is a symbiotic relationship between safer cities and the community with one nurturing the other to alleviate societies\xe2\x80\x99 vulnerabilities to crime and insecurity'
PMO and Ministry of Urban Development has decided to rope-in the Indian Green Building Council for creating environment friendly and energy efficient smart cities, says IGBC Chairman Prem C Jain'
Tamil Nadu government has announced a slew of measures to augment civic infrastructure besides plan to encourage non-motorised transport'
Google will provide high speed internet services at 100 railway stations in India initially and then expand it by 400 more by next year, says Google CEO Sundar Pichai'
b"Microsoft's plan is to partner with the Indian Government to bring in low-cost broadband connectivity to 500,000 villages in India, says Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella"
Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has unveiled two policies pertaining to affordable housing and allotment of land in urban areas of the state'
b"To cater the growing need for housing in the state, the government will soon bring an improvised version of the Centre's 'Housing for All' policy"
The state government has proposed various road projects to the tune of over Rs 1,800 crore in order to ensure safe transportation and economic growth'
Union Minister Jitendra Singh has emphasised on the need for setting up readily available blood bank facility along all the major road highways across the country'
NDMC Chairman Naresh Kumar briefed about the vision of the civic body, which encompasses efficient, livable and sustainable urban area, efficient use of scares resources, smart mobility, and smart governance'
b"The Rajkot Municipal Corporation will launch the concept called 'Prayas' under the 'My City Clean City' theme, along with a citizens' group called the Utkarsh Civic Group, says Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra"
b"The Rajkot Municipal Corporation will launch the concept called 'Prayas' under the 'My City Clean City' theme, along with a citizens' group called the Utkarsh Civic Group, says Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra"
The Urban Development Minister has shared a three-pronged approach adopted by the government for Swachh Bharat - changing mindset, creating infrastructure; and establishing systems and processes towards governance'
b"Solar energy will power elevators installed at Delhi Metro's Huda City Centre station, panels for which have been put up in its parking lots"
b"Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his second visit to US, outlined the government's reform agenda and promised to address concerns while removing bottlenecks for ease of doing business"
India will provide 24x7 power across the country by 2019 by creating cost effective sustainable infrastructure, inclusive of clean energy solutions, says Power Minister Piyush Goyal'
The state government is going to spend around Rs 4,000 crore from its budget in next five years towards IT, ITES and Electronic Systems Design and Manufacturing sector'
b"Most of the Millennium Development Goals have 'either been attained or likely to be achieved shortly', says Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia"
The proposal came after the survey, conducted by the corporation, revealed that almost 11 lakh people in municipal limits use public toilets, while over 30,000 citizens defecate in the open'
The government must assure investors and partners about the commercial viability of their Smart City investments to successfully address funding gaps and implementation hurdles'
The private sector-led Innovation Forum will serve as an additional avenue for the two governments to seek feedback and input for bilateral discussions'
With the issuance of the notification by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission, solar power can now be harnessed by domestic as well as commercial power consumers'
The slum policy approved by Delhi government will ensure in-situ rehabilitation of slums whereas relocation will take place only in exceptional cases'
Loan proposals worth Rs 4899 crore are pending with the Asian Development Bank and World Bank regarding the development of nearly 20,000-km long highway in the state'
The state will follow all the central guidelines and raise the required funds itself to develop Gurgaon as a smart city'
Madhya Pradesh is working at a faster pace to set up 158 projects to generate 6,700 MW power through windmills'
The draft policy wanted users to store all encrypted communication for at least 90 days and make them available to security agencies, if required, in text form'
Chief Justice DH Waghela sought the clarification while adjudicating on a PIL which said Cuttack was left out from the smart cities list in a discriminatory manner'
The committee entrusted with chalking out the National Electricity Plan, has decided to constitute 11 subcommittees to deal with different aspects of the power sector'
b"Solar panels are being installed atop all the Foot Over Bridges (FOBs) on Delhi Metro's recently launched Faridabad corridor, whose stations are already equipped with similar facilities"
Under the policy, likely to be launched on September 29, it will be mandatory to set aside 1 percent of the total project cost for plantation'
b"The $160 million 'Smart Cities' initiative is aimed at helping communities tackle local challenges and improve city services"
Rain Water Harvesting scheme has been revived in the state resulting in an additional recharge of over 8 tmc ft. (thousand million cubic feet) of groundwater'
A bicycle is no longer a poor man\xe2\x80\x99s ride. Alternative mobility solutions like cycling are gaining ground in India and are a growing part of the urban Indian\xe2\x80\x99s daily activity'
The Rs 45,000-crore Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) will strengthen distribution networks and ensure 24X7 power supply to all by 2022'
The Tamil Nadu government will gradually set up roof top solar photo voltaic panels in all urban local body (ULB) buildings as part of the efforts to tap the potential of renewable energy'
The last date for submitting the suggestions and ideas to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is October 25'
Four major IT corridors - DLF Cyber City, Cyber Park area, Golf Course Road and Electronic City - have been identified to make the campaign more concentrated'
Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC), a special purpose vehicle, will be set up to provide a boost to the railway infrastructure projects in the state'
The Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation Ministry is likely to put in place a single window, time-bound clearance system for layout approvals and building permissions by the beginning of next year'
b"An expert committee set up to prepare a roadmap for tackling cyber crime has suggested an 'Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre' (ICCCC) at the national level"
An additional Rs 444 cr loan will also be provided for funding the proposed feeder service and solar energy installation of Nagpur Metro Rail by KfW Germany'
Delhi traffic police sets one more milestone by creating another green corridor to transport a human heart for transplantation from Gurgaon to New Friends Colony in a record time'
The state is developing many other applications related to Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems to make police people-oriented, says the CM'
BWSC caught up with Shekhar Dutt, Director-General - SPDA, a retired IAS officer and former Governor of Chhattisgarh, to get his views on smart cities, solar power and the need to optimise the use of precious natural resources'
The Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation Minister has invited private players to play an active role in providing decent housing for the needy at an affordable cost'
As per a report by Equirus Research, government grants will be leveraged to attract funding from internal and external sources but need to be supplemented by viable business models or guarantees from the Centre'
Examples of innovative policing from across the country offer ideas that need to be woven into a new, integrated approach to tackle old crimes and new threats'
A first-of-its-kind assessment has been conducted to take stock of business reforms implemented by states from Jan-June 2015 based on the 98-point action plan agreed between DIPP, states and UTs'
b"Tamil Nadu will implement the Centre's broadband project 'BharatNet', linking more than 12,500 rural local bodies in the state, at an investment of Rs 3,000 crore"
b"Disney researchers have demonstrated that light bulbs could communicate with each other, with objects and with the Internet to create 'smart' environments"
Only three of the 98 cities selected so far under the Smart Cities Mission are among the top ten clean cities, according to data prepared by the Urban Development Ministry for 476 Class-1 cities of the country'
The chief minister of AP has set year 2018 as the deadline for completion of the Vijayawada metro rail project, estimated to cost Rs 6,769 crore'
Launched in partnership with Tata Steel by the Jharkhand police, Augmented City Surveillance and Response Capability is a police-public partnership initiative for better policing in the state'
The investment arm of HCL will set up a 100-acre IT CIty as per the MoU signed with the state government, which would create job opportunities for 25,000 people'
Asian Development Bank and GOI have signed two loans to help the Government of Rajasthan better manage essential urban services and finance water supply and wastewater upgrades'
The National Green Tribunal has directed local bodies in Delhi to take stern action for penalising such offenders by levying fines on them'
Global Positioning System will be installed in all 12,000 buses of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation before October 12'
Canada is looking at huge investment opportunities to invest about $750 billion of pension funds in urban development and infrastructure projects in India'
b"All nine stations of the Faridabad extension of DMRC have received the 'highest green building' ratings for being equipped with eco-friendly features, including solar panels"
The Delhi Dialogue Commission draft policy, available online for public consultation, will be finalised and submitted to the Delhi government for further approval of the Cabinet after 15 days'
Garbage disposal sites in Delhi have turned venues for a new art project that seeks to create awareness about the benefits of recycling using popular Bollywood film posters as backdrops'
The National Offshore Wind Energy Policy would be applicable throughout the country depending upon offshore wind potential availability'
The state government will launch a pilot project of motorbike ambulances in Mumbai from 2016 to ensure expeditious medical treatment during an accident or emergency'
The State government is mulling changes like using pre-fabricated and pre-cast technology and introducing PPP model to bring in improvements in its public housing programme'
The Rs. 11,000 crore Pune Metro project, which was conceived six years ago, has finally got the go ahead from the Centre'
India\xe2\x80\x99s electronics manufacturing sector is poised for a leap in the coming years, with likely investments of over $400 billion, says TRAI Chairman RS Sharma at Deftronics 2015'
Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal has sought Rs 2,500 crore, for Ludhiana, from the centre under the smart city project'
Mahesh Ramanujam would replace Rick Fedrizzi, the Co-Founder of US Green Building Council and current CEO after he steps down at the end of 2016'
b"The state had set an investment target of $250 billion in the infrastructure sector, says Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa while inaugurating 'Global Investors Meet' in the state"
The decision was taken at an inter-ministerial meeting, chaired by Urban Housing and Poverty Alleviation Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu, to conclude the process of streamlining approvals for construction projects in urban areas'
b"Airports Authority of India would meet solar plants' expenditure from its own budget and if required, it could go to private developers for setting up the solar plants"
The revised tariff will come into force with effect from September 1 and will be reflected in the bills issued in the month of October onwards'
Water, electricity and other basic amenities will also be made available to the poor by 2022 in the state, according to Chief Minister Raghubar Das'
The local body elections will take place in November and new governing bodies are likely to take charge by December 1, says State Election Commissioner K Sasidharan Nair'
Around 16 lakh LED bulbs have been distributed in BSES area, cumulatively leading to energy savings of 17 million units per annum'
The mechanism to alert train drivers about unmanned railway crossings has been devised by engineers of Varanasi-based diesel locomotive factory'
b"'e-Pragati' is a comprehensive framework for implementing e-governance and providing e-services to the citizens of Andhra Pradesh"
Agencies such as World Bank, ADB and JICA would come forward to lend only if the urban bodies have the ability to pay back, says the Urban Development Minister'
The Urban Development Ministry has proposed linking of user charges in urban areas to inflation for financing the Smart Cities and AMRUT missions'
SmartCity Kochi, spread over 246 acres in the IT corridor of Kochi, is a hub for all Information and Communication Technology, media, finance and education (research) companies'
Over 20 percent of enterprises will have digital security services devoted to protecting business initiatives using devices and services in the Internet of Things by year end 2017'
There are plans for installing solar panels across 55 acres of land at the cost of Rs 130 crore to meet the power requirement of NSCBI Airport, says R K Srivastava, Chairman Airports Authority of India'
Delhi Development Authority is working on four new mobile applications with an aim to bring in greater transparency and ease in consumer grievance redressal'
Each of the 96 cities included in the ambitious project have been given Rs 2 cr for preparing Smart City plan while Funds for Delhi and Chandigarh will be sanctioned soon by the Home Ministry'
The Jammu and Kashmir chief minister has called for accelerating the adoption of best practices to tackle the growing problem of solid waste management'
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) is being asked to seek details from telecom operators about their infrastructure and capacity to provide effective services'
The National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) model will enable seamless travel by different metros and other transport systems across the country besides facilitating retail shopping and purchases'
Developed by the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) - "utsonmobile" - the paperless unreserved ticketing feature in mobile application aims to eliminate the need for printing of unreserved tickets'
The ambulance watch towers are meant to keep tabs on the movement of ambulances with critical patients and make easy routes available to them'
Security spending - hardware, software and services - in India is on pace to reach USD 1.11 billion in 2015, up 8.3 percent from USD 1.02 billion in 2014, according to Gartner'
b"Growing need for data security coupled with extensive use of biometrics technology in government digitisation projects will drive India's biometrics market, says TechSci Research report"
The public parks of Kolkata will be illuminated by an automated - battery less - carbon-neutral solar lighting system, reducing the carbon footprint and electricity bills'
Modernisation of the State Disaster Response Force is aimed at making rescue and relief operations as quickly as possible during emergencies, says Deputy Chief Minister N Chinarajappa'
The plan to install solar panel on roofs of bus shelters of Delhi Transport Corporation is targeted to meet the aim of generating 1,000 MW of solar power in the next five years'
b"Ramping up of the existing urban infrastructure, fast tracking of approval processes and targeting the actual beneficiary will be crucial for the success of 'Housing For All by 2022' project, says India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra)"
The Rs 500-crore "Smart Grid" project, a part of the smart city initiative, is aimed at reducing losses through better power distribution and checking thefts and faults in transmission'
The new mobile application by Delhi Police has brought together all its earlier launched apps and links to the websites of its specialised units under one common platform'
Easy exit options for completed highway projects will release Rs. 40 billion to their developers which can be used for other infra projects or to retire debt, says India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra)'
An interactive energy platform, which is an open source web based tool, will enable policy makers and other stakeholders to make a more secure and sustainable energy future for India'
The Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation will provide an assistance of over Rs 2 lakh crore over the next six years for enabling two crore urban poor own their own houses'
The portal is being developed as a part of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) project of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs'
The government has announced Rs 48,000 crore for development of 100 Smart cities out of which 98 names were declared and rest two will be nominated in due course'
The entire approach and philosophy underlying the governance and management aspects of the recently-announced Mission should aim at strengthening local governance systems instead of weakening them'
b"The total population of the 98 Smart Cities is about 12 crore accounting for 35 per cent of country's total urban population as per the 2011 Census"
The names of the cities selected for the Rs 48,000 crore Smart Cities project was released by the Centre pending a nomination each from Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir'
Promoting integrated townships as greener, self-sustaining hubs can help alleviate many of our city woes'
The I-CLIK, which was launched in January this year, enables women, who are generally apprehensive about visiting a police station, to file a complaint online from the kiosk'
The fingerprint database of convicts and crime offenders will be set up by the Home Ministry by collating records from all the states and union territories'
The state government will undertake a road safety audit of national highways and state highways as a measure to bring down the rate of road accidents'
b"The decision to appoint smart city mentors for these has been taken considering that the state's 10 cities will be competing with other 90 cities from across the country"
Under the new photo challan system, traffic policemen will take a picture of violators through their smart-phones and upload it on the traffic police server'
At present, Thiruvananthapuram is the only city in Kerala having a cyber police station to deal with cyber crime'
Unlike traditional, spatially-isolated suburban business hubs and research facilities, investments in smart cities can be leveraged to strategically create urban innovation centres'
Smart City leaders will need to identify every single rupee available in central and state government schemes to optimise funding and combine solutions that can help deliver the best results'
The move follows the decision of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to uphold ban on plying of over-ten-years-old diesel vehicles in the national capital region'
The Maharashtra government will make it binding on builders to complete redevelopment projects in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) within a stipulated time-frame'
This is aimed at issuing warnings on rising water levels during the monsoon'
Being bustling cosmopolitan hubs of trade and cultural activity, ports have long been drivers of economic growth. The Smart Cities Mission offers new hope to these urban centres'
Before our cities gear up to become \xe2\x80\x98smart\xe2\x80\x99, I would like them to give back my right to take a sip straight out of the tap without fear'
b"Industry body Confederation of Indian Industry has hailed the Haryana's new 'Enterprises Promotion Policy 2015' which is focused at enhancing the ease of doing business in state"
The Forest cover has been declining due to various reasons such as encroachment, open cast mining, shifting cultivation practices among others'
The aim is to ensure the greater presence of women police personnel on the streets for the safety and security of women in the national capital'
b"The airports will be developed as a part of 'Make In Maharashtra' campaign to connect industrial cities and district headquarters with air services, says Maharashtra Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar"
The Centre desires the state governments to set up goals to woo private investors in all sectors and bring India among top 50 ranks on the global index of ease of doing business'
Details of first-stage recommendations and guidelines for 100 Smart Cities have been finalised in consultation with states & UTs, says Urban Development Secretary'
The Forest cover has been declining due to various reasons such as encroachment, open cast mining, shifting cultivation practices among others'
The focus of planning the state\xe2\x80\x99s proposed capital Amaravati is on providing \xe2\x80\x9ctailor-made solutions\xe2\x80\x9d to fit the local environment and culture, says master planner'
An additional 200 million Indians will access Internet in the next three years, with majority of them coming online through smartphones, according to a joint study taken by Assocham and Grant Thornton'
The state plans to set up a panel of technical experts to make suggestions on the use of latest technology in the construction sector for large-scale housing projects'
The drive would put emphasis on "micro-level monitoring over day-to-day cleanliness of all areas, lifting of solid waste, cleanliness of public urinals", says NDMC mayor Ravinder Gupta'
Smart transportation segment estimated to lead, given the rising demands for solutions like traffic and parking management'
The Delhi government and MoWR have agreed to set up a Special Purpose Vehicle for rejuvenating the Yamuna; blueprint to be prepared in 45 days'
All the 476 Class-1 cities in 31 States and Union Territories, each with a population of above one lakh were surveyed for assessing total sanitation practices covering a set of parameters'
26 disaster management control rooms have been set up in the state which are linked with 29 police stations'
The first-of-its-kind project will be replicated across all five corporation cities by October this year'
The project is designed to benefit citizens of Aluva, primarily with cleaner water and air, better sanitation facilities, improved road safety and flooding systems'
District Urban Development Agency will strenghten and augment infrastructure - roads, streets, local parks, street lights - in each of the Assembly constituencies'
With an estimated cost of over Rs 6,900 crore, the project will be implemented as a joint venture of the Centre and the UP government'
The aim is to provide real-time updates to passengers as part of GSRTC\xe2\x80\x99s move to modernise public transport facilities'
The Corporation created the record by conducting the "largest recycling session" to teach the participants on how to reduce, reuse and recycle waste'
The criteria for selection of villages will be similar to that of Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, considering 400 villages in the first phase of which 100 will be selected'
These are especially to be enforced in areas where building activities are prone to disaster, as identified by the UD department'
Trans-harbour link is a proposed 22-km freeway which will connect Mumbai with Navi Mumbai across the Thane creek'
b"Toll amount will be automatically deducted from commuter's account without waiting at toll plaza, having ETC system, with the use of RFID FASTag on vehicles"
The wi-fi market is driven by the need for wi-fi enabled devices and increase in the adoption of smart devices by consumers, according to a new report by Research and Markets'
The Bill proposes to provide a comprehensive framework for women to effectively enforce their fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution and various existing statutes'
b"For swift transportation of critical patients to hospitals, the state government is considering marking a permanent 'green corridor' in the city"
The salient features of the project include creation of pedestrian-oriented space in Chandni Chowk, which will be seen as a catalyst for revitalising economic, infrastructural and tourism potential of Shahjahanabad'
North Delhi Municipal Corporation will digitise all property tax-related records with an aim to bring in greater transparency and help the corporation in identifying defaulters'
The MoEF has proposed an urban forestry scheme on a pilot basis, targeted at developing at least one city forest in urban areas having a municipal corporation'
In the first release of funds, each Mission city has been given an advance assistance of Rs 25 lakhs for preparation of the Service Level Improvement Plans'
The state government had scrapped the Development Plan in April this year, due to strong oppositions, following which the civic body was asked to come up with a fresh draft within four months'
More time is being sought to fully operationalise the Crime and Criminal Tracking Networks & System that aims at connecting databases of security organisations'
The Delhi Jal Board has proposed to install Grid Connected Roof-top Solar Photovoltaic system at its different installations and use the generated electricity for running them'
Data of 1,079 parks under 11 divisions of the DDA has been fed and the maintenance work has been divided under three heads - electrical, civil and horticulture'
Large cities like Patna, Shimla, Thiruvananthapuram, Gangtok and Bengaluru did not make it to the list of 98, issued by the Urban Development Ministry'
b"There will be at least 88 smart cities all over the world by 2025, up from 21 in 2013, based on the IHS definition of a smart city in it's new report"
To be operational by the year end, National Investment and Infrastructure Fund will primarily focus on fund infusion in infrastructure projects - greenfield, brownfield and the stalled ones'
States and UTs must release central assistance and the State/UT share to ULBs within seven working days of its release'
The new vice-chairman plans to improve public interface by revisiting procedures of various transactions of DDA and also by making the housing authority more responsive and accountable through regular feedback'
b"Navi Mumbai, Mumbai, Pune-Pimpri Chinchwad, Amravati, Solapur, Nagpur, Kalyan Dombivali, Aurangabad, Nashik and Thane have been selected by state for the 'Smart City' project"
P K Jena, Principal Secretary of IT, will head the committee which will prepare the road map for carrying forward the smart city programme'
The Corporation, expediting the efforts to make Vadodara a smart city, has included one more criteria as arts and culture keeping in mind the rich tradition of performing fine arts in the city'
United Multi-modal Transport Authority (UMTA) will directly report to Assembly and heads of every department will be part of this authority to ensure better coordination to make the public transport system better in the national capital'
The Union Cabinet has approved the recommendations, made by the Rajya Sabha Select Panel, for GST rate to be no more than 20 pc and to levy 1 pc additional tax by states only on actual sales and not on inter-company stock or inventory transfer'
The Department of Telecom has also directed operators to transmit public alerts based on cell broadcast service to subscribers in the affected districts'
India is likely to finalise the proposal outlining its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) to curb emissions of greenhouse gases by next month'
Haryana Chief Minister has announced that the government will soon unveil a new Information Technology policy to make the state an attractive IT destination'
Under the awareness generation campaign launched by MoUD, 1,129 urban local bodies from 15 States and UTs have organised quiz contests to sensitise students about the Swachh Bharat Mission in urban areas'
Industrial and public services sector, such as retail, agriculture, smart buildings and smart grid applications, will form the majority of the IoT device base, according to a new report by Juniper Research'
Solar parks, aimed at generating 26,000 MW of solar energy under Rajasthan Solar Energy policy 2014, will be set up by four companies in the state'
The workshop, to be held on August 28, will cover IT infrastructure and e-governance related best and innovative practices'
World Bank-supported Disaster Management Authority is expected to be ready for mobilisation of the works by March next year in the state'
b"The advantages of using the 'FASTag', under Electronic Toll Collection for payments, include no waiting at toll plazas and cashless payments ensuring seamless movement through dedicated toll lane"
The mobile app, as part of the smart city initiative, will allow the citizens to report on the potholes for the concerned officials to take necessary action to rectify them'
Various factors such as boom in real estate, increasing awareness levels, growth in retail and hospitality sectors are the major drivers of facilities management sector in India'
b"The state government will seek Governor's approval to bring an ordinance to make voting compulsory for elected representatives from the coming local body polls"
b"The programme 'Municipal Corporation at Doorsteps of Citizens' would be conducted in all the 104 municipal wards of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation"
Railways is constructing Eastern Corridor from Ludhiana to Dankuni and the Western Corridor from Dadri to Jawaharlal Nehru Port under Dedicated Freight Corridor project - meant for faster movements of goods'
The top 10 list highlights countries outside of the US that are making significant strides in sustainable building design, construction and transformation, illustrating the ever-growing global demand for LEED green buildings'
The project - Crime and Criminals Tracking network and System - will improve police citizen interface and speed up the delivery of public services through police across the country'
b"The 21-member committee, in it's report, has recommended that the one percent additional tax by states should not be levied on goods - not for sale and favoured compensation to states for five years"
The Delhi government will float a tender to scrap the BRT Corridor and the Public Works Department will be asked to supervise the project'
Indian Railways has rolled out massive investment plans, of Rs 8.5 lakh crore in the coming five years, for strengthening and modernising the key railway infrastructure in the country'
With an aim to raise capital and make the Metro financially viable, the two main junctions of North-South and East-West corridor under Nagpur Metro Railway will have a multi-storey station complex'
The success of housing for all project will depend on various factors such as ramping up the existing urban infrastructure, fast tracking approval process and targeting the actual beneficiary according to a report prepared by India Ratings'
b"Chief Secretary of Puducherry has forwarded the nomination along with all the forms and documents including the details of evaluation of all the five urban local bodies in the UT as required in the Stage-1 of 'City Challenge' competition"
Floated by the BRICS nations to help step up infrastructure funding in the emerging economies, it formally commenced operations at its China headquarters'
The plan envisages various zones that include a central business district, residential townships, recreational spaces and a waterfront'
The Delhi government has decided to scrap the 14.5 km-long Bus Rapid Transit corridor between Ambedkar Nagar and Delhi Gate'
b"The master plan by the Singapore government for the 'Seed Capital Area (SCA) of Andhra Pradesh envisages it as a vibrant business hub comprising residential townships, institutions, parks, water bodies and recreational facilities, among others"
CREDAI aims to remove the problems being faced by the real estate sector namely the delays in approval processes, abnormal guideline value and high taxation rates'
With the deployment of the system, Surat City Police has become the first police department in India to have a Picture Intelligence Unit (PIU)'
Apart from relocating existing electricity infrastructure to expedite construction of roads and streets in cities and towns, the government aims to remove electricity lines hanging dangerously in residential areas'
In a first-of-its kind initiative, the civic body is sending a team of around 20 gardeners and safai karamcharis abroad to enable them receive hands-on-training in using latest technology to maintain cleanliness in public places'
As many as 25 smart bus stations, with facilities ranging from wi-fi and FM radios to newspaper kiosks and laptop resting pads, will soon come up in Chengannur'
The purpose of constituting  the Delhi Urban Development Agency is also to end the confusion of multiplicity of several government agencies working in an area'
The state is seeking consultancy services for implementation of roadmap, planning and strategy installation of 2,500 MW solar photovoltaic capacity under the new solar policy'
JCB\'s "Livelink" provides alerts, namely on real time location, maintenance and fleet hours, by putting the user in entire control of the machine from any location'
The proposal is aimed at simplification of FDI policy with a view to attracting foreign investments and also improving ease of doing business in India'
The roads having more than 35,000 km network like state highways, link roads and rural roads would also be given a facelift, said Punjab Deputy Chief Minister'
The Chief Ministers of Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura and Finance Minister of Mizoram, in the meeting at NITI Aayog, were also briefed on infrastructure initiatives taken up by the central government in the North Eastern region'
France is ready to share its experience in the field of integrated sustainable cities, particularly in terms of urban planning, urban networks, water and sanitation and sustainable mobility and digital technologies, says French Consul General in Puducherry Philippe Janvier Kamiyama'
India has the potential to provide a workforce of about 4-5 crore to the world if the capabilities of the countrymen are honed through proper and dynamic skill training, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi'
Along with formally launching the mission and unveiling the new \xe2\x80\x9cNational Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 2015\xe2\x80\x9d, Narendra Modi has also launched Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) and the Skill Loan scheme'
To achieve the lowest electricity cost, service providers need to implement five key strategic phases of smart lighting, namely, LED lighting, sensors and controls, connectivity, analytics and intelligence, says Gartner'
b"The focus of the 'Rashtriya Mahamarghs' (national highways) under the 'Bharat Mala' programme is likely to be on connecting border areas"
b"Ajay Kumar Pandey will replace the current head of GIFT city, Ramakant Jha, who will move to Mumbai as CEO of IL&amp;FS's Smart City initiative"
b"Ajay Kumar Pandey will replace the current head of GIFT city, Ramakant Jha, who will move to Mumbai as CEO of IL&amp;FS's Smart City initiative"
H.E. GUSTAVO DE AR\xc3\x8dSTEGUI, Ambassador of Spain in India, in an interview with BWSC, on how his country is well-poised to join India in its quest to revitalise cities'
TORU HASHIMOTO \xe2\x80\x93 Director of Development Cooperation for the City of Yokohama spoke to Preeti Singh about the power of mass mobilisation for smarter cities and city-to-city cooperation'
Security agency employees will have to have better education and far better training before they can act as adjuncts of the police and intelligence apparatus'
b"Urban Development Ministry clears the Transit Oriented Development Policy, expected to recast Delhi's landscape as part of review of Master Plan for Delhi 2021"
Estimated to be to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore, it will cover areas like tourism, power, health, water resources and infrastructure development'
Part of a World Bank-funded road project, it aims to bring international best practices in collecting, managing, analysing and using road accident data'
A new report by TechSci Research says the rising demand for sophisticated electronic security and lighting systems from commercial complexes will drive growth'
b"Strategy Analytics's independent web-based survey polled over 450 businesses worldwide across 45 vertical markets in June 2015"
Municipal corporations have been asked to make available a toll free number, dedicated website and a text message or telephone receiving system to register all complaints related to bad roads, footpaths and path holes by the state Urban Development Department'
b"'Energy University', which will be setup with cooperation and support from Centre, will focus on research orientation and development of energy efficiency, energy conservation and renewable sources"
The green building certification, which will boost eco-friendly construction and make buildings more resource-efficient, has been launched in Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai'
While most people agree that abject pessimism is neither warranted nor deserved, getting excited about this journey toward smartness must be tempered with just a dash of realism about where we stand today'
b"Around '50 percent' of the city still not covered by sewer pipelines whereas 20 percent area yet to be covered by drinking water pipelines, says Delhi CM"
With its heavy reliance on central support and an economy that is still trying to find a strong foothold, the North East Region needs planned intervention to ensure sustainable development'
Indian cities are repeating the mistakes of developing countries by building more infrastructure that encourages personal vehicles at the expense of mass rapid transit'
The pact for the development of comprehensive integrated multi-modal urban and sub-urban commuter system - Greater Chandigarh Transport Corporation - was signed by the governments of Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh Administration'
Cooperative initiatives between various stakeholders could result in savings worth $17 trillion for the global economy by 2050, says a new report by the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate'
b"India's wind power sector likely to attract investments of over Rs 1 lakh crore over next five years, with an addition of 4,000 MW installed capacity per annum in the next five years"
Delhi Jal Board has partnered with a charitable trust SANA to install a plant, powered by solar energy, to convert raw sewage waste into safe and potable drinking water'
The Strategic Manufacturing Skills Council will enable improvement in overall quantum and quality of production of the strategic manufacturing sector by complementing the existing vocational education system and enhancing the skill building capacity across levels for the entire value chain'
The companies interested in investing money will be given customised packages under Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme - 2014 to set up their facilities in the state, said Parliamentary Affairs Minister Rajendra Rathore'
With construction of 5,776 community and public toilet seats since the launch of the Swachh Bharat mission in October 2014, it is followed by Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Chandigarh and Karnataka'
Indian Railways will set up solar plants in Abu Road and Bhilwara stations in Rajasthan for generating a total of 80 KWP to provide continuous power supply to platforms and offices'
The Centre of Excellence, a joint venture by NASSCOM & DeitY & Education and Research Network (ERNET), will run on a Public Private Partnership model with seed fund from the government and will be managed by NASSCOM'
Every state government will evaluate all cities/towns based on four broad criteria - existing service levels in city/town institutional systems and capacities, self-financing and past track record and reforms - and nominate the top performers as per the number assigned to each state'
b"In Maharashtra, the cities which have the capacity to raise an initial fund of Rs 50 crore and additionally spend Rs 200 crore annually for next five years, will be selected for the 'Smart City' project"
The race for 100 smart cities has begun. Winners will be decided on the basis of their willingness to fix urban governance by strengthening local bodies and finances while building capacities'
Balancing the comfort of hotel guests with increased scrutiny in a highly-sensitive zone can be tough. Technology can offer a discreet way out'
b"The competition, aimed at encouraging citizens to contribute their ideas and solutions for addressing challenges faced by Indian cities, saw participants suggesting  common measures such as 'waste to wealth', 'recycling of water' and 'sustainable energy' to develop cities as smart cities"
b"The top CEO's from India and abroad have committed to invest Rs 4.5 lakh crore, in the areas such wireless broadband deployment, cloud and telecom space, at the launch ceremony of Digital India week by Prime Minister Narendra Modi"
Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor, a part of the Dedicated Freight Corridor initiative, will help faster and more efficient movement of raw materials and finished goods between the northern and eastern parts of India'
Imagine a relay race that is also a marathon. That\xe2\x80\x99s how it is going to be with Smart Cities, it seems. With the launch of the Smart Cities and AMRUT missions, the onus is firmly on the states now to make a dash for the finish line'
R.S. Sharma, Secretary, DeitY, at the Ministry of Communications & IT, explains what lies ahead for cities and citizens and how can accessible and participatory governance help'
The central government wants to build capacity of local contractors, engineers and other stakeholders for participation in the construction of highways and infrastructure in the North-East'
b"As a part of the 'Bharatmala' project, the two new national highways will be constructed from Sabroom to Kukital in Assam and from Khowai sub-division to Agartala in Tripura"
The first phase of the much-anticipated, multi-crore Chennai Metro Rail was flagged off by Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, with the inaugural service steered by a woman driver'
With the new traffic layer option on Google Maps, commuters can see real-time traffic information on routes, mapped out in different colors, indicating the different speed of traffic on roads'
The Delhi Government has proposed subsidy on battery operated two and four wheelers, a Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility for disposal of hazardous waste and plantation of 12 lakh saplings by all concerned government agencies for a cleaner Delhi'
The agreement for Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, designed to finance infrastructure construction in the continent, specifies members\xe2\x80\x99 shares, governance structure and policy-making mechanism'
b"According to TechSci Research, growing demand for renewable sources of energy, increasing technological advancements and favorable government incentives will drive India's solar equipment market through 2020"
To avoid multiplicity of agencies, the Delhi Government proposes to set up the Delhi Urban Development Agency to work as central agency for execution of developmental projects and maintenance of public assets'
As part of energy conservation, the Maharashtra Government has set a target of distributing seven crore LED bulbs to domestic consumers in the next one year'
The government is expecting investments to the tune of billions of dollars during the launch of Digital India week where the Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also unveil various government schemes like Digital Locker, e-eduction and e-health'
Delhi Development Authority, which will undertake the Lake View redevelopment project in east Delhi with National Buildings Construction Corporation, has announced its twin projects of transforming Dwarka into a smart sub-city and setting up a first-of-its- kind adventure cycle park in the city'
Minister of Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation has urged the State Governments to strengthen Urban Local Bodies by transferring funds and functionaries and enhancing their administrative, planning and technical capacities'
Delhi Government has announced a slum redevelopment policy to develop the JJ clusters and expedite the regularisation of unauthorised colonies to boost housing and urban development in the national capital'
Bloomberg Philanthropies, the Knowledge Partner to the Ministry of Urban Development for the Cities Challenge, will lend its expertise in designing and delivering large scale competitions for cities, as well as its global urban expert network to support the Smart Cities Mission\xe2\x80\x99s success'
Observing that the image of builders is "bad", Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised to protect the home-buyers and said a bill in this regard will be pushed during the upcoming Monsoon session of Parliament'
b"The project, that aims to transform Bhendi Bazaar - a congested commercial and residential locality in the heart of Mumbai, was showcased and identified as the 'national best practice project for inner city redevelopment' by the Centre said SBUT"
b"A smart city is one that keeps at least two steps ahead of citizens' expectations, says the Prime Minister. Amen to that, I say"
Private property developers should not decide how a city should grow and the decision should be taken by residents and the city leadership, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi'
For the new urban missions, the Central Government has virtually withdrawn from the earlier practice of appraising and sanctioning individual projects, there by ending the scope for subjectivity and discretion'
Past track record under JNNURM, service levels, financial strength will decide selection at state level under stage-1 of City Challenge Competition while economic impact of smart city plan, inclusivity, e-governance, citizen participation will decide financing of smart cities under Stage-2'
Stressing on the need for people centric urban planning and development, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched three mega urban schemes setting in motion the process of urban transformation to enable better living and drive economic growth'
According to a report by BCC Research, the global market for smart cities technologies will grow from $212.3 billion in 2013 to $668.5 billion in 2019 with ICT playing a vital role in making cities smarter in sustaining quality of life without upsetting the ecological balance'
Punjab government has finalised the proposed blueprint for urban and rural mission which includes work on sewerage, water supply, sewerage treatment plant, cemented streets, and mechanised cleanliness system along with other basic amenities'
Most developments, discussions and debates on Smart Cities boil down to a few questions that I sincerely hope to find glimmers of answers to in the next two days at Vigyan Bhawan'
'
b"'e-Pragati' will offer 600 services to the citizens of Andhra Pradesh such as Certificate - Less Government System (CLGS), Mana Rashtram, tele-health, e-education, HARITA, e-Mandi, Citizen Inbox, Digital Literacy, e-SHG, Smart City and Smart Grid"
We are planning to float Rurban Mission under which a cluster of villages having population upto 50,000 will be formed and later developed into a model town in a way like a new township or urban area, said Chaudhary Birender Singh'
The meeting of sub-group of Chief Ministers will review the current situation of solid and liquid waste management technologies, discuss waste treatment facilities and also the technology providers/ technologies recommended to address the waste challenge'
Bhuvan Ganga Mobile Application will enable public to collect and report information on various pollution sources that affects the water quality of river Ganga, supporting concerned authorities to take further action for the Clean Ganga Mission'
According to CARE ratings, increased consumer awareness and easy credit availability would help the government in achieving the target of adding 40 GW solar rooftop capacity to generate 100 GW of solar energy by 2022'
The last date for the entries of Intel & DST- "Innovate for Digital India\' Challenge has been extended to 28th June 2015'
According to TechSci Research, a growing need for automation and real-time monitoring across various sectors will drive machine to machine modules market in India'
Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu has stressed on building a strong inland waterways system linking the ports to national highways and develop the state as a logistics hub for Southeast Asia'
The Honeywell Smart Building Score is a first-of-its-kind global tool evaluating a building on the three key aspects of a smart building - green, safe and productive'
UP, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, MP, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Telangana and Chhattisgarh would lead the urban transformation as these account for 70 percent of smart cities to be developed and AMRUT cities to be rejuvenated'
b"The deadline has been extended and there's still four days left - time enough to air out that idea that's been keeping you awake at night. It's the week to innovate for Digital India before the June 28th deadline"
b"Aimed at eliminating the use of physical documents, the digital locker will provide a dedicated personal storage space in the cloud to citizens, linked to citizen's Aadhaar number"
For each tree to be removed, the rate for security deposit has been increased from Rs 28,000 to Rs 34,500 and from Rs 28,000 to Rs 57,000 for individual applicants and commercial projects respectively'
b"'BlueTT' - a software programme developed by researchers from Universidad Politecnica de Madrid - generates information from the identification of Bluetooth devices boarded on vehicles allowing city councils and highway concessionaires to carry out a better management of traffic network"
b"A new Mobile application 'police app' will enable citizens, across the capital region of Vijayawada, with the facility to lodge complaint or report about any crime through their smart phones"
b"Solar power plant generating 6600 units of electricity per month has been installed by the Delhi Jal Board at it's Varunalaya Office Complex in Delhi aiming to reduce power bill and help in environmental conservation"
Based on the applications stating the financing plan required and justifying one time fund infusion, NHAI will provide financial assistance to the projects where infusion of moderate funding could lead to its completion'
PM will address Mayors and Chairpersons of selected 500 corporations and municipalities to outline his vision for emerging urban India, including challenges to be overcome, and a two-day brainstorming session involving the stakeholders and experts on June 25'
b"The 'Mera Shahar Mera Sapna' contest has been organised by the Ministry of Urban Development seeking ideas and solutions in three different categories for smart cities project"
The only global tool of its kind, launched by the International Renewable Energy Agency, the app combines 1,000 maps from 67 governments and 50 data centres to provide information on global renewable energy sector'
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce the implementation guidelines for the two urban renewal projects, Smart City and AMRUT, besides unveiling the Housing for All by 2022'
Once the Select Committee gives its report in the second week of July, the Upper House will take up the Constitutional Amendment Bill for rollout of GST in place of all indirect taxes in the Monsoon Session of Parliament'
The Delhi Cabinet will take a final decision on the Bus Rapid Transit corridor in the city on the basis of a study report submitted by Delhi Transport Department on the same'
With an objective to expedite the improvement of infrastructure, the government has approved Rs 7,528.74 - crore projects for widening of stretches of NH 6 in Maharashtra under its flagship road building programme National Highways Development Project'
The Jaipur city will be beautified with new parks, better road landscape, walkways and elevated roads in a phased manner in the near future, said Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje'
Committees would recommend possible tax rates under GST that would be consistent with the present level of revenue collection of Centre and states and would also monitor the IT preparedness for the new indirect tax regime'
To fulfill the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we have kept the target of building 5,000 homes for people in lower income groups in urban areas, said Indore Development Authority Chairman Shankar Lalwani'
A high level meeting, chaired by Delhi Chief Secretary K K Sharma with the top officers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan, discussed various steps including installation of weigh-in-motion (WIM) systems on border points to reduce the vehicular pollution in Delhi/NCR'
b"'Narendra Modi Mobile App', aimed at giving a chance to people to interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share ideas and suggestions, will provide an opportunity to receive messages and emails directly from him"
Soon to be launched in English, the Urdu mobile app allows users to copy and share any information related to Umrah and Haj pilgrimages through mobile messaging service WhatsApp, Facebook, e-mail and mobile SMS'
b"The Union Cabinet has approved a substantial increase in interest relief on loan for the urban poor to promote affordable homes under its mission to provide 'housing for all'"
b"With this ambitious target of generating 1,00,000 MW of solar power by 2022, approved by Union Cabinet, India will become one of the world's largest green energy producers"
b"Maharashtra government's new IT & ITES policy, in a hope to generate employment for ten lakh people in the IT sector, proposes integrated IT townships with 'walk to work' concept envisaging people living and working in the same area"
The International Energy Agency has warned that the global temperatures could jump by as much as 4.3 degrees Celsius by the end of the century and urged countries to improve their pledges on reducing emissions'
IoT can be a powerful tool to help reduce physical monitoring in areas like traffic management, remote health services, building automation, security provision and asset tracking'
b"India's track record in repayment of loans was very clean and ADB would be looking forward to increasing its exposure in infrastructure, skill development and urban services, said Asian Development Bank President Takehiko Nakao"
Of the total housing shortage in urban areas, 95 percent is of Economic Weaker Sections (EWS) and Lower Income Groups (LIG)'
Urban areas around the world are moving beyond traditional municipal security to embrace the \xe2\x80\x98safe city\xe2\x80\x99 approach'
Centre will soon come up with policies on waste into energy or composite materials besides formulating a strategy on reuse of debris, the Urban Development Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu has said'
With an objective to improve the business climate of the country, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion has circulated a set of 285 questions to all the states of which the state governments have to submit the final responses by June 20'
A total of 5.43 MW (5,430 KW) capacity solar rooftops has been installed on 52 government buildings and 376 private residential buildings in Gandhinagar'
b"Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has said that the government has adopted the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation or the 'Metro model' for solid - waste management"
The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation, at present handling 74 projects of about Rs 35,000 crore, is set to award projects worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore over the next five years'
b"Mumbai's Bhendi Bazaar is being transformed via a cluster redevelopment scheme and the showcase project has the potential to become a template for urban rejuvenation across India"
LEDs offer significant advantages over other lighting technologies like CFLs and ICLs, last longer, are safer to dispose of and generate huge savings in the long term'
The Council of Scientific & Industrial Research laboratory will develop technologies for the national missions like Swachh Bharat, Swasth Bharat Abhiyaan, Smart Cities project and Namami Gange contributing to the vision of Samarth Bharat-Sashakt Bharat'
Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the state government will extend financial assistance from the reserve funds to the civic bodies on basis of their performance of unit in keeping cities clean and in waste management'
The Bhendi Bazaar Redevelopment Plan, which has been selected by the Centre as one of the best smart city projects, will be presented at the meet at Vigyan Bhawan on June 25-26'
The Bhendi Bazaar Redevelopment Plan, which has been selected by the Centre as one of the best smart city projects, will be presented at the meet at Vigyan Bhawan on June 25-26'
b"Finance Minister Arun Jaitley will review the performance and bad loans situation of the PSU banks, progress made under the Jan Dhan Yojana and Prime Minister's social security schemes among other issues"
b"The district administration will prepare disaster management plans at micro levels and will form teams of 'first responders' in various government institutions, schools and colleges to help tackle any natural calamity"
The Internet of Things can create a strong return on investment by reducing support costs, increasing customer loyalty and referrals, uncovering insights to cross-sell or up-sell to customers, and developing customer-appealing products, according to Frost & Sullivan'
A total of 164 countries have adopted at least one type of renewable energy target, up from 43 countries in 2005, as per the International Renewable Energy Agency'
New analysis from Frost & Sullivan reveals that the need for inventory management to reduce instances of loss or misplacement of medical equipments, supplies or drugs, along with efforts to minimise errors and improve patient safety,  will drive the market for RFID smart cabinet systems'
According to a new report from Frost & Sullivan, rapid urbanisation, global connectivity and digital convergence of next-generation IT solutions will open up growth opportunities for the Internet of Things and cloud-based solutions in smart buildings'
According to a new study by Rand Corporation in coordination with Juniper Networks, the methods used by hackers to infiltrate systems and countermeasures are often kept private making evaluation of cyber security difficult'
The international NGO, Greenpeace India, has proposed lighting up of dark spots in the city using solar street light systems to make such areas crime-proof and safe for women and children'
According to a World Bank report, India has figured in top five emerging economies for highest investment commitments in private sector, infrastructure sectors - energy, transport and water'
The approach, which does not require people to carry Wi-Fi - enabled telecommunications devices for them to be counted, can be used in many diverse applications such as search and rescue operations during a disaster'
The facility would help and advise neighbouring nations with regard to development of social infrastructure, including schools, hospitals and ICT'
'
'
'
'
The tie up with the Common Service Corporation is to ensure the speedy implementation of the construction of household toilets in urban areas under the Swachh Bharat Mission'
'
The Centre and Uttar Pradesh government in association with Energy Efficiency Services Limited will distribute 13 lakh LED bulbs as well as will replace 36,077 conventional street lights with LEDs in Varanasi'
'
b"The last date for applications for 'Innovate for Digital India' challenge, by Intel and the Department of Science and Technology (DST) with support from CIIE (IIM-A), DeitY and MyGov.in, is June 22, 2015"
'
'
Global Smart Building Market 2015-2019 research report forecasts a steady growth for worldwide smart building industry at nearly 12 percent CAGR with rapid urbanisation being one of the major market growth drivers'
British police may be able to predict crime before it takes place using a "predictive" software called "Person of Interest" (POI) which analyses the data and alerts law enforcement officials of impending threats'
Smart parking, including P2P parking, digital and mobile payments, real-time parking, will create manifold opportunities for cities and boost parking operations to reach $43.084 billion in 2025'
Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu said the Centre, state government and the local governing bodies should join hands to create an "integrated transport solutions body" to address the public transportation issues of smart cities'
Rs 98,000 crore Smart City and AMRUT projects will be formally launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with the guidelines for developing 100 Smart Cities and 500 AMRUT cities, on June 25'
A non-AC coach of Rewari-Sitapur passenger train has been lit by solar panels installed on its roof as a part of Indian Railways plan to harness the solar power'
National Industrial Corridor Development Authority would carry out project development activities, appraise and sanction projects, implement and coordinate all central efforts for industrial corridor development'
In the hybrid model for road projects, along with providing all the approvals and clearances, the government will share 40 percent of the cost and the remaining will be contributed by the developer'
The plan is to cut down energy demand by nearly 10,000 MW in peak hours by changing to LED lights in street and homes by 2019, says Power, Coal & MNRE Minister'
The total size of the project is $600m, of which $400m would be financed through the World Bank arm - the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development'
The Urban Development Ministry has asked for a specific share of revenues from the proposed Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the urban local bodies in different states to improve their dismal financial condition'
The core objective function of the Smart Cities Mission will be to create a policy and regulatory design that dynamically sets nation-wide standards on urban living'
With the decentralisation of power to transfer land, Collectors and Revenue Commissioners can now transfer land worth Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 12.50 lakh, respectively, in Maharashtra'
The new report by International Data Corporation (IDC), is one of the three recently-published reports defining the Internet of Things market and identifying opportunities in the IoT ecosystem'
Maharashtra Cabinet has approved a composite policy on renewable energy, setting a target of achieving 14,400 MW of installed capacity in a period of five years along with attracting an investment of Rs one lakh crore'
Economic Development Board, to be constituted by the Andhra Pradesh government, aims at attracting approximately Rs 2 lakh crore investment into the state in the next five years'
b"The Internet of Things is the stuff that foretells the future. Vishal Krishna spoke to Intel's Satish Jadhav to get his views on the fascinating IoT universe that he navigates"
The Internet of Things does not require top-heavy models or billion-dollar investments. Its greatest strength lies in the simplicity with which it breaks down complex problems'
IoT will support total services spending of $69.5 billion in 2015 and $263 billion by 2020 across the world. A bunch of Indian startups are right in the middle of the coming revolution'
Former Karnataka IT & BT secretary M. N. Vidyashankar, President of the India Electronics and Semiconductor Association (IESA), has been championing the cause of startups as the next big avenues for job creation'
Installation of Global Positioning System (GPS) has become mandatory in all public transport vehicles, including DTC buses, autorickshaws and taxis, plying in the national capital'
b"The campaign will now move to Phase Two, the wireframe phase, where teams can submit mock-ups and designs based on the blueprint highlighting the features of the app that will allow citizens to engage with the Prime Minister's Office"
According to US based security firms Mission Secure Inc (MSi) and Perrone Robotics Inc, self-driving cars that have a wide range of cutting-edge technologies could end up leaving them vulnerable to hackers'
A report by International Data Corporation (IDC), India explains how the Internet of things (IoT) is being adopted as a tool for innovation'
An incisive three-month programme for start-ups, ACCELERATE|ENTREPRENEUR by BW|ACCELERATE, concentrates on product development & insights; go-to-market strategy & customer acquisition; business expansion and fund raising'
President Pranab Mukherjee has given nod to re-promulgation of the land ordinance bill which could not be converted into a law during the recently concluded Budget Session of Parliament'
The cooperation between the two countries opens up doors of new opportunities for the domestic MSME sector by way of new markets, joint ventures, sharing of best practices and technology collaborations, among others'
To digitise all government documents, the Digital India Platform (DIP) will provide freelancing opportunities to computer literates in the country'
The Cabinet Committee has approved the construction of trunk infrastructure components for the Dholera Special Investment Region (DSIR) in Gujarat and the Shendra Bidkin Industrial Area (SBIA) in Maharashtra under the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project'
It is time to focus on the difficulty of doing business in India, boost Indian manufacturing\xe2\x80\x99s spirits and attract investment, as a proactive, business-friendly prime minister promises change'
Low-cost telematics in cars, packed with more electronics than most consumer machines, are taking safety to another level'
A centralised information system based on GIS provides an IT framework that integrates all aspects of a smart city, in a world where norms of the past are no longer valid'
The industrial sector may have released enough pollutants into the atmosphere but our homes are just as responsible. Smart cities are set to change the way we consume energy'
US and Indian companies, the US government and Government of Rajasthan present concrete roadmap to convert Ajmer into a Smart City'
b"The Smart Cities Opportunity Assessment Model (SCOAM) focuses on creating a framework for smart cities in India on four key 'smart' areas, namely, energy, water management, transportation and waste management"
A 1977-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre Pradeep Kumar Sinha will take charge as the Cabinet Secretary with effect from June 13, 2015'
b"Foreign investors will no longer require government's permission for share transfers where foreign direct investment (FDI) is allowed under automatic route as per the new Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) circular on FDI"
Over 1,00,000 Digital Lockers , a free of cost, hassel free and secure service aimed at eliminating the usage of physical documents, have been opened by the Indian citizens'
The Indian government had launched the National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) in May 2013 to strengthen health service delivery in urban areas'
Rs 4500 crore smart sub-city project - which will come up at Karkardooma in east Delhi - will also have a 100-storied iconic tower as its centrepiece'
The Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs will draw up job roles, train 1500 trainers, accredit 60 training organisations in the sector and certify 10.60 lacs students in the first year of operations'
Former finance secretary Vijay Kelkar will chair the panel aimed at revisiting and revitalising the public private partnership (PPP) mode of infrastructure development'
The new regulations now included in the Land Pooling Policy of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will ensure timely external development of necessary infrastructure'
The Digital Service Cloud open Internet of Things (IoT) platform, built on Azure, is proven to scale to millions of devices'
Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) seeks to target the traditional and important source markets overseas from where the country receives a large number of investment proposals'
12 Indian states are expected to go online for green clearances, namely forest, environment and coastal regulation zones clearances by June-end to ensure transparency and faster project approval'
Through its mobile app, Google My Business (GMB), the search giant Google aims to help SMEs create and manage their business information online across Google, in English and Hindi, for free'
New industrial policy will emphasise on inviting green and non-polluting industries while focusing on skill development and employment generation for youth'
Experts from the United Kingdom (UK) and Indian Institute of Technologies (IITs) are working together to create a new renewable energy model - which combines the best of solar power, biomass energy and hydrogen - for the continuous supply of power'
Innovations in smart grid technology and renewable energy can boost nationwide power generation, lower costs and optimise electricity consumption'
Smart Cities require a pragmatic approach to technological development, powered by Information and Communication Technologies as an instrument for sustainable development'
b"The report highlights that the government's vision and sponsorship is crucial in facilitating Transit Oriented Development (TOD) projects given the role that public transport plays in addressing long term sustainability of cities"
YES BANK has also released a knowledge report, \xe2\x80\x98Growing the Smart Way\xe2\x80\x99, which analyses the Smart Cities scheme, provides recommendations and a snap-shot analysis of the best practices worldwide'
'
India is poised for unprecedented urbanisation in coming years. The development of its cities will be key to the journey ahead'
b"As a first step towards 'SMART' policing, the government will establish one model SMART police station in each state for which specific funds will be allocated"
The forecast by Gartner includes spending by financial institutions on internal IT, hardware, software, external IT services and telecommunications'
New analysis from Frost & Sullivan finds that the adoption of connected healthcare infrastructure is not uniform across the world'
The Centre would implement a massive project to lay a four-lane road facility over a 10,000 km stretch in the north-eastern (NE) states during the next financial year'
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) - designed to finance infrastructure construction in the continent - is expected to be officially established by the end of 2015'
Most cities in India will become smart bit by bit and project by project rather than through a Big Bang. Emerging business models from around the world can shine a light on the way forward'
Nasscom Cyber Security Task Force aims to make India a global hub for providing cyber security solutions including cyber security products and services'
Pune Municipal Corporation is working with the Pune Action Task Force to prepare the economic master plan that will lay guidelines for undertaking future sectoral developments in the city'
Place branding represents a highly critical proposition, especially for the developing world, to market dynamic economies in transition'
As part of the initiative, the city government is moving towards a paperless citizen service which will enable users to access government documents through the Internet'
b"The entries shortlisted earlier for designing the logo and creating the tagline for 'Digital India' initiative - through the two contests in August -September 2014 and January, 2015 - would also be considered during fresh evaluation"
b"The state government has asked experts involved in revision of the master plan for the state's summer capital Srinagar to keep in mind the post-flood scenario"
These digital wind farms (DWFs) can boost power production by up to 20 percent and help generate about $50 billion of value for the wind industry'
b"The comprehensive amendments in the revised Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Act will help strengthen the Government of India's ability and authority to mandate standards"
The global home security solutions market is expected to grow from $28,318.69 million in 2014 to $47,542.52 million by 2020, at a CAGR of 8.7 percent between 2015 and 2020'
Kolkata, Mumbai and Bangalore have emerged as the top three fastest growing cities in A.T Kearney\xe2\x80\x99s Global Cities Index'
The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is drawing up a blueprint for smart city and digital infrastructure and has partnered with Cisco for its expertise in the segment'
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)-mentored smart city pilot projects will be based on a PPP model where the foreign partner will also be responsible for mobilising multilateral funding'
Kolkata, Mumbai and Bangalore have emerged as the top three fastest growing cities in A.T Kearney\xe2\x80\x99s Global Cities Index'
Effective urban planning holds the key to promoting Smart Cities in India'
The CM\'s panel on Swachh Bharat will submit a "very practical" report to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi by the end of next month'
PSUs like NTPC, Coal India and NMDC have been roped in to fund the setting up of over 60 Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations across 12 cities by this year-end'
The $10-billion pledge by South Korea comprises via the Economic Development Cooperation Fund ($1 billion) and export credits ($9 billion) for priority sectors including smart cities, railways, power generation and transmission and other sectors to be agreed'
b"The 'Smart City Maturity Model' (SCMM) has been prepared by the Indian School of Business (ISB) to help a city or state assess its technology readiness to align resources and capabilities"
The Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (NMRCL) plans to install a 30 MW capacity solar plant that will meet 40 percent of its energy requirement'
Sweden, which has expertise in urban planning, power, sustainable transport and waste management, sees business opportunities with Indian partners in states'
b"Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-day visit to China saw deals inked in a wide range of industries, including renewable, energy, power infrastructure, steel and small & medium industries"
b"Bloomberg Philanthropies, which will act as a knowledge partner for the 'Smart Cities Mission', will also assist in design and implementation of the process for selection of cities"
b"The initiative, part of 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan' is aimed at promoting and incentivising cleanliness, hygiene and infection control practices at public healthcare facilities"
A Non Banking Financial Company (NBFC) can now issue infra debt funds at 50 percent and maximum at 75 percent of its total capital fund for PPPs'
The proposed IT structure by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) besides focusing on issues such as cyber security, will also include supervising the nature of technical capabilities of the banks'
The city has been divided into two zones for the completion of the project wherein around 1,400 CCTV cameras in the south zone will be installed by November this year'
The top 10 sectors that have received maximum Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) include services, automobiles, telecommunication, computer software and hardware and pharmaceuticals'
b"People can now register their complaints about potholes and rough patches on PWD's roads at 1800-110-093 or online at complaint@pwddelhi.com and www.pwddelhi.com"
With the aim of achieving the energy generation target of 175 GW by 2022 from renewable sources, the government has already approved 19 solar power parks'
The strategic cooperation between the two will involve areas ranging from the Digital India initiative to cyber security and cyber consultations'
The transport bill that is being drafted, with views from experts and the public, will include the rights and responsibilities of pedestrians'
Under the National Land Record Modernisation Programme, the state government has started the digitisation in all 358 talukas of the state'
b"The state's new MSME policy also assures uninterrupted 24x7 quality power supply with power cost reimbursement at Rs 1 per unit for 5 years from commencement of commercial production"
b"IBM's Smart Cities Programme will help the selected cities address the challenges like waste management, disaster management and citizen services"
A report prepared by Nasscom on the Information and Communications Technology framework assumes that the total ICT spending for smart cities can account for 10-15 per cent of the overall budget'
The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved two major policy initiatives to accelerate growth in the highway sector and pave the way for private sector participation'
TRAI had issued draft rules following the receipt of several complaints from consumers relating to anomalies in charging of data services'
Transparency International India and LocalCircles to launch online and mobile based anti-corruption citizen communities for all districts of India'
Google Transit, a feature in Google Maps, will allow access to information for 12,000 trains as well as updated details for bus and metro routes in eight cities'
A Frost & Sullivan whitepaper discusses how open-data initiatives can create innovative programs to implement efficient city services'
b"Machine to Machine (M2M) communication is going to be a key enabler for the government's vision of Digital India, Make in India and smart cities in India"
The Internet of things (IoT) solution providers must educate end-user organisations on the benefits of IoT to allay concerns, like those related to security'
\xe2\x80\x98National Telecom M2M Roadmap\xe2\x80\x99 will serve as a single reference document for all the M2M stakeholders in India'
As per one analysis of NSSO 2004 data, around 63.22 million people were impoverished due to healthcare expenditure in 2004, Parliament has been told'
The state plans a dedicated industrial policy to provide Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) all the necessary incentives and facilities to set up businesses in the state'
The solar bag can charge electronic devices, power lights and a fan for trekkers in remote areas'
b"Germany will also help Punjab harness the huge potential in rooftop solar and biomass power in the state to create a 'Renewable Energy Equipment Hu"
b"Five departments from the Punjab government have already integrated their services with 'Mobile Seva'"
New Industrial policy to establish industries up to the block level, aiming to provide employment opportunities to the educated youth of the state'
Reliance Infra, BSES and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd plan to encourage domestic consumers to set up rooftop solar panels and earn money by selling electricity to the discoms'
While the state has committed to contribute Rs 75 crore towards the Micro, Small and Medium Entrepreneurs (MSMEs) fund, the rest will be raised from banks and other financial institutions'
A Malaysian team is visiting India for discussions about modalities of procurement and participation in the bidding process for highway projects'
Under the Viability Gap Funding (VGF) scheme, the government provides financial support to public private partnership projects in the infrastructure sectors to make them commercially viable'
The government has appointed a committee of bureaucrats to help select the master developer for its proposed capital city in the Vijayawada region'
The state has come out with a notification to grant an increase of 10 percent FAR for green buildings to encourage projects that follow more environment-friendly norms'
Consultative meeting was held by the HUPA Ministry on fast tracking of approval procedures for real estate projects, especially affordable housing, with officials from multiple  ministries'
Consumers will get a chance to generate solar energy via solar rooftop and regular electricity bills will be issued after adjustment of power generated and power used'
b"Smart city guidelines are in an advanced stage of finalisation after which a 'City Challenge Competition' would be held for selection, the Urban Development Minister has said"
The process of selection for developing smart cities will be initiated after guidelines are issued to the states'
Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)would exhibit fresh equity to the sector while  attracting long-term finance from foreign and domestic sources'
The IT services sector is expected to grow 10.5 percent in 2015 to reach $1.7 billion with the business process outsourcing segment growing 21.2 percent'
b"Micro, Small and Medium enterprises (MSMEs) have also been tagged for special support in the state's upcoming New Industrial Policy 2015"
b"The total outlay for the National Smart Grid Mission's activities for the 12th Plan is Rs 980 crore with a budgetary support of Rs 338 crore"
Earlier, the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) had powers to make recommendations for investment up to Rs 2,000 crore  only'
The mobile drug testing laboratory is the first-of-its kind facility in India to conduct real-time analysis of the contents of medicines to check for adulteration'
The Indian government is following an integrated approach with a series of legal, technical and administrative steps to address the growing threat of cyber attacks'
The West Bengal government has adequate land for these projects, which would be developed by the state Urban Development Department'
The Goods & Services Tax Bill will now move to the Upper House while the panel examining the Real Estate bill will submit its report once Parliament meets for the Monsoon Session'
Via a digital locker, citizens can safely store digitalised copies of important documents by registering themselves with their Aadhar number to avail the facility'
Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC) will provide live pictures from various construction sites for round-the-clock monitoring'
b"Under the concept of 'net metering' to be promoted in New Delhi, consumers can sell the surplus power produced  by roof-top solar panels to BSES at rates approved by DERC"
b"This was reported by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction's (UNISDR) Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR) 2015"
This was stated by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley at the First Business Session of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) at Baku in Azerbaijan'
The AP government is eyeing a target of 5,000 MW solar power and 4,000 MW wind power by 2019 to meet energy security and clean energy targets'
b"Bloomberg Philanthropes will carry a 'smart city challenge competition' for the cities nominated by states and UTs. According to the plan, 20 cities will be selected this year, followed by 40 each in the next two years"
A high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also focused on rural infrastructure, power, coal, renewable energy and petroleum and natural gas'
The Sub-Group the best technologies and practices available in the country and abroad, including for the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan; to give report by June-end'
The smart grid will be developed jointly by the private sector, government and the Power Corporation of India on Public-Private-Partnership model'
b"The team 'Quality Assurance Unit' has been formed by PWD for the quality check and control and technical audit of the state government's ongoing construction projects"
The deadline provided by the Ministry of Urban Development and MyGov for submitting the logo and tagline for both missions is 3 Pm on May 4 2015'
Smart cities would have an investment of over Rs 2 lakh over the next five years, out of which half would come in from states and local bodies'
b"The new MSME policy that would provide incentives to women, SC and ST entrepreneurs might also give 15 percent of APIIC's land to such enterprises"
b"To be taken up with people's involvement, Rs 1,000 crore will spent on the initiative"
Only the projects that were sanctioned till March 2012 under JNNURM have got the two-year extension for completion up to March 2017'
Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis has sought Israeli cooperation in the form of technology and strategy building in the fields of defence production, agriculture, cyber security and smart cities'
The National Transmission Asset Management Centre (NTAMC) is being developed by the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited'
The Cabinet has approved the Smart Cities Mission and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation of 500 cities (AMRUT) with outlays of Rs. 48,000 crore and Rs. 50,000 crore respectively'
b"Nagaland Police's SMS-based Vehicle Monitoring System (NPSVMS) allows the public to report a vehicle theft via SMS to the hotline number 8415900400"
b"The 100 Smart Cities project was announced by Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in the BJP-led NDA government's first Union Budget last year in July"
The helpline number 9643096430 would function from 9 AM to 5 PM on weekdays and is open to text messages or Whatsapp during weekends and holidays'
The online marketplace aims to remove friction from the patent market especially for smaller participants who sometimes end up working with patent trolls'
The US government and American companies willing to help but lack of clarity on funding of smart cities is seen as a major obstruction, says US Ambassador'
b"With the solar energy project costing around Rs 4,500 crore, Gudh tehsil in Rewa district will be the home of world's largest solar power station"
The helpline service 1098 would be available round the clock'
Authorities to set up disaster management committees at the tehsil, block level, village, mohalla levels and organise disaster management workshops for generating awareness'
A Mobile Monitoring System has been introduced to eliminate bogus musters and allow real-time updation of database for complete transparency'
The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Urban Development has asked the ministry to finalise the components and list of 100 smart cities within three months of the presentation of this report'
The AAP Government is also contemplating providing Wi-Fi in 5,000 DTC buses and lay a common fibre infrastructure in the city'
The disaster management plan specifying the role of various government agencies, including municipal corporations and the police, will also cover unauthorised colonies'
b"The Mayor and his team of experts briefed the visiting Maharashtra delegation on the concept and implementation of the Smart City project in his city, adjudged as the 'World's Smartest City' at the Smart City Expo World Congress 2014"
The draft MoU relating to urban development was presented during the meeting of a high level Spanish delegation led by its Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation with the Indian Urban Development Minister'
These would be capable of reaching a person soon after he or she dials the number 100 for security and the facility will be launched from August 15'
Health experts from Ontario province in Canada will help in implementing the telemedicine project in Gujarat'
Video analytics can now transform cities into a hyper-connected world of data and information to extract insights that can help governments plan and respond more efficiently'
The Boston Consulting Group study has underlined three factors for impressive Internet penetration growth figures - expanding reach, more affordable access and improved awareness'
This includes the Ministry of Urban Development, while GST Bill and financial business feature in the packed agenda of the second week for the second part of the Budget session'
Launched in Virudhunagar district of Tamil Nadu - home to a huge number of fireworks and printing industries - the programme will benefit 60 panchayats, as part of a state-wide programme'
Uttar Pradesh state has announced its solar policy and the state government is working on the directions of making solar power plants and solar parks in the state'
Launched with support from CIIE (IIM-A), DeitY and MyGov.in, the challenge aims to foster technology innovation to build products that can help scale technology adoption in India'
The Committee has suggested to establish urban transport as a state subject and develop formal mechanisms for state participation in decisions about initiation, siting, size and other aspects of airports and rail-based transport'
The Town and Country Planning Organisation (TCPO) of the central government has sanctioned posts of 25 urban planners while 26 states have 1,563 such posts'
Dalberg Global Development Advisors, in association with CII, has published a report that quantifies the value of smart maps to Indian citizens, businesses, and government within the context of India\xe2\x80\x99s urban development'
The city\'s "citizen police connect programme" seeks to connect all sub-inspector rank officers and people of the state capital through WhatsApp number 9454401501'
With panels weighing 35 kg and providing up to 960 watts of power, the solar car prototype can hit a top speed of 60 kmph'
The  Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) is controlled by Shiv Sena, in alliance with BJP'
This is the fourth pilot district approved by the government for implementation of DELP, following the previous three  wherein a total of around 42 lakh LED bulbs were already distributed'
b"The state's September 2015 investors meet will have twelve focus areas, including automobiles and auto components, aerospace, infrastructure, renewable energy and IT/ITeS"
Introduced on a pilot basis, the paperless ticketing system in the unreserved segment will cover 15 stations in the suburban section of the Southern Railway'
The Committee has suggested to establish urban transport as a state subject and develop formal mechanisms for state participation in decisions about initiation, siting, size and other aspects of airports and rail-based transport'
b"The new state's capital city can then be connected online to hospitals in outlying districts and rural areas"
ITECCS cell will monitor Dial 100, integrated traffic management, smart city surveillance, highway police and other such services'
Maharashtra leads the list with seven of its urban bodies having online sanction of building plans that help in reducing the time taken for according necessary approvals, followed by Kerala with five'
Measures like ease of FDI norms, liberalisation of ECB policy and incentives to promote REITs and InvITs can revive project funding for construction sector'
Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to prepare a fresh plan within four months'
The policy has been finalised from the administrative perspective and soon a presentation will be made before the Maharashtra Chief Minister, following which it will be sent for state Cabinet approval'
India\xe2\x80\x99s top young technology thinkers competed in five different \xe2\x80\x9cpolicy tracks\xe2\x80\x9d to create new tools to improve the delivery of government services to the people'
'
Private players to develop apps separately for DGFT, DGS&amp;D, SEZs, Tea Board, Coffee Board and Spices Board falling under the Ministry of Commerce'
Comprising of both traditional and digital safety elements, a PPP-based security approach aimed at safeguarding both citizens and infrastructure is pivotal to national progress'
The model is a mix of EPC and BOT formats, with the government and the private enterprise sharing the total project cost in the ratio of 40:60, respectively'
The Centre is studying a proposal for developing a new, elevated electricity-based mass rapid transport system (MRTS)'
The Delhi Traffic Police WhatsApp helpline number 8750871493 was launched in October 16 last year and so far action has been taken in over 7,500 complaints after due verification'
b"The content of blogs, message boards, microblogs will be analysed to understand the larger picture as to what is really on the nation's mind"
The Department of Telecommunications expects this mode of connectivity to increase digital penetration that is in line with the objectives of Digital India'
Rooftop projects will help the Centre realise its ambitious target of adding 100 GW of solar power by 2022 even as green energy has its own challenges, say industry experts'
Participants will create relevant and applicable digital solutions to challenges that stand in the way of better government and will be judged on quality, innovative vision, practical application and scalability'
The wi-fi hotspots will initially cover 30 places in the city and will be available across all other major cities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in 2-3 years'
The mobile/web application enables the complainant to register an FIR and instantly receive a copy of the same without going to a police station'
A TRAI paper, put in the public domain on March 27, is aimed at soliciting comments from all stakeholders for framing rules on net neutrality and on regulation of Over-the-Top service providers'
The state government has announced the launch of the "LED promotion programme" for saving energy by providing three LED bulbs to the consumers at 50 percent of market price'
b"The first India-EU Strategic Dialogue Series, organised by UK-based policy platform India Inc. alongside key players like Microsoft and McKinsey, focused on 'Delivering Smart Communities'"
A plethora of mobile apps aimed at women\xe2\x80\x99s security are making way for a host of one-touch devices that can be hidden in plain sight'
b"French PM Manuel Valls is urging for a new intelligence bill to bring in extraordinary measures in times of crises that threaten citizens' security"
More than 100 of India\xe2\x80\x99s top coders and developers will be in Delhi for a two-day PolicyHack to leverage existing data to tackle real-world challenges to efficient and transparent governance'
b"At 410 million city dwellers India has the world's second largest urban population, with an urgent need to create a stable policy framework for private investment in urban infra"
Using mobile chip technology embedded into each fixture, the street lights are able to identify themselves and network instantly via a smart plug-and-play approach'
Urban Development Minister M. Venkaiah Naidu and US Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx have discussed cooperation on sustainable transport solutions for Allahabad, Visakhapatnam and Ajmer'
The Union Cabinet has given its nod to the amended Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Bill, 2013, paving the way for greater transparency and accountability.'
An increasing demand for safety solutions, coupled with growing sales of consumer electronics, will drive sensor demand in India through 2020'
'
The Bill seeks to bring under its ambit all commercial real estate and ongoing projects, as well as brokers, while safeguarding consumers'
Noting that diesel is prime source of air pollution in Delhi, the NGT said the situation is so alarming that people have been even advised to leave Delhi due to adverse effects on health'
India has put in place adequate safeguards to ensure that digital technology is not misused says Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi'
In order to strengthen the Anti-Corruption Branch, the Delhi government has also increased its strength from 30 to 40 inspectors who work with 40 teams to investigate cases of corruption'
With a target of 100 million homes by 2022 set by the government, innovation for faster construction is the need of the hour'
b"The small nation of Estonia has taken giant leaps of faith in using technology to give a new meaning to the phrase 'at the click of a button'"
b"Launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Air Quality Index will have 'one number, one colour and one description' for the public to understand about air quality in a simple format"
The Urban Development Minister has said that the Expenditure Finance Committee has cleared the smart cities proposal, which is likely to go to the Cabinet any time this month'
Chief Minister of Delhi Arvind kejriwal has promised that in five years Delhi will be ranked among top corruption-free cities in the world and has asked all government officials to publicise the helpline number'
The Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government is developing a mobile app for smartphones that can secretly record a sting video/ audio and transfer the data to a secured server'
The drones, which can cost up to Rs 6 lakh each, can fly up to 600 metre in a one-kilometre radius and drone surveillance will be formally launched by CM Akhilesh Yadav later this month'
For the first time China has allowed its $367 bn Social Security Fund to invest in local government bonds to bail out the debt-ridden provincial governments whose outstanding loans surpasssed $3 trillion'
RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan has said loans to infrastructure projects should not override the overall financial stability, which is "key to national security"'
UAVs have been frequently used to monitor pollution discharge and the operation of desulfurisation facilities of companies related to steel, coking and electricity industries'
The Information Technology Agreement has also resulted in trade imbalances, with DeitY flagging the rising security implications of IT goods being imported under the agreement'
The banking units within the IFSC in GIFT City will be able to transact with non-resident entities - except individual, retail customers or HNIs'
'
The draft norms finalised by the markets regulator provide for a number of strict safeguards for investors and are expected to give a major boost to the 100 smart cities initiative'
b"CCEA has approved the change in the definition of a 'Private Sector Company' in the guidelines for financial support to PPPs in Infrastructure under the Viability Gap Funding Scheme"
Technology giant IBM is targeting USD 40 billion in annual revenue from cloud, big data, security and other growth areas by 2018, while already offering smart cities solutions'
The PRSF project is the first guarantee operation of the World Bank in India without a financial counter-guarantee provided by the Government'
GIGO JOSEPH \xe2\x80\x93 CEO, SmartCity Kochi, spoke to BWSC about how the project is helping achieve economic, social and environmental sustainability while leveraging technology via a Smart Digital Plan that offers more structured living conditions to its residents'
b"Armed with a smart phone loaded with 'Beatbook', a beat constable would be connected to a centralised server to update records and fill logs from anywhere"
The Director of the National Institute of Design (NID) \xe2\x80\x93 India\xe2\x80\x99s premier design institute \xe2\x80\x93 shares his thoughts on why we need to go beyond technology when talking about smart cities'
BWSC caught up with S. NARAYAN, CEO of Lavasa Corp. \xe2\x80\x93 a subsidiary of the Hindustan Construction Company. Here\xe2\x80\x99s what he had to say about India\xe2\x80\x99s first post-Independence hill station and \xe2\x80\x98democratic\xe2\x80\x99 development, while taking measure of 100 smart cities'
By effectively using open data technologies and processes to engage citizens, policy makers can add value to existing public services and make citizens partners in progress'
The country is looking at savings of nearly 100 billion units of power by the use of LED lights, the Power Minister has said'
b"The Group's new online & print magazine - BW Smart Cities - seeks to connect everyone in the smart cities ecosystem to build a constructive discussion forum for issues related to new technologies, urban governance and partnerships"
The Internet of Things (IoT) is generating as much interest as it is questions. The idea of heterogeneous devices being able to communicate with each other through a variety of means is opening up a world of possibilities. BWSC caught up with UDAY CHALLU, CEO iYogi \xe2\x80\x93 a global technology products and services company from India that has developed an award-winning IoT platform \xe2\x80\x93 to talk about smart cities, public safety, smart homes and more.'
The Government of India, via the Ministry of Urban Development, plans to invest more than $20 billion on metro rail projects in the coming years. BW Smart Cities spoke to PANKAJ BANSAL \xe2\x80\x93 MD, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. about some of the project\xe2\x80\x99s highlights'
Given the opposition against the Greenfield model, a majority of the 100 smart cities are expected to follow the Brownfield path. Cyberabad, a dynamic example of retrofitting, can show the way'
PULAK GHOSH, Professor of Quantitative Methods and Information Systems at IIM-B speaks to BWSC about the role of data analytics and GIS in powering smarter cities'
Future Cities will be built on seamless integration between human intelligence, technology and physical infrastructure. India\xe2\x80\x99s challenge lies in reconciling the three'
b"The Cabinet has given an 'in-principle' nod to the Sagarmala project, aimed at port-led development in coastal states"
A chain of Waste-to-Energy (WTE) plants are to be set up in various NDMC areas and the Solar City project would also be taken up'
The Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given its approval for the Approach and Key Components of e-Kranti : National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) 2.0'
b"India's municipalities are the weakest globally in access to resources, financial autonomy and revenue raising capability, says the Urban Development Minister"
The move will also help start-ups to participate in creating new open software source and generating jobs, the Minister of Communications and Information Technology has said'
b"Two villages in the Jaipur district will be developed as 'Health Smart Villages', under which data will be collected and computerised to manage the health scenario"
Capital markets regulator Sebi has approved norms for setting up of stock exchanges and other capital market infrastructure in such centres, beginning with GIFT City'
In a move that will help raise funds for infra and smart cities, regulator Sebi has approved new norms for issuance and listing of municipal bonds on stock exchanges'
Amsterdam Mayor Eberhard van der Laan  is leading a business delegation of about 60 representatives from the Amsterdam Metropolitan Area to India'
Smart homes and smart commercial buildings will represent 45 percent of total, leading Connected Things in use in 2015'
The real estate sector has been going through tough times and the expectations from the first full budget of the new government were extremely high'
All necessary approvals for the project will be in place by the end of March and action on the ground will begin next month, says the Urban Development Minister'
b"The government's decision will be enforced on all types of cabs in Delhi, including Radio taxis and black-and-yellow cabs"
The role of specialised agencies, indigenous technical knowledge and community-based methodologies to deal with natural disasters crucial, says the Home Minister'
Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu has set up the 16-member committee that would be headed by the Vice-Chairman of Delhi Development Authority'
Help Age India has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the need to create or design cities for senior citizens and the differently abled'
GRIHA is the national rating system for green buildings in India and is the first indigenous attempt to address sustainability issues in the Indian construction sector'
The US-based infrastructure design and consultancy giant is preparing to participate in initiatives like Smart Cities and Make in India, including for the ports and defence sectors'
A delegation of experts from the Spanish town of Bilbao, which was ravaged by floods in 1983 and has since been rebuilt, shared its views on urban rejuvenation with the recently-appointed Delhi Dialogue Commission'
The IFC focuses on PPP infrastructure models for smart cities and has been asked to provide advisory services and capacity building suggestions to the state'
A total of 1205 women constables and 142 women probationary sub-inspectors are undergoing basic training, Parliament was informed earlier this week'
Launched by MoRTH, the web-based portal aims to ensure complete transparency in the supply of cement for concrete roads, aimed at reduction in the cost of construction of highways'
The index would be rooted in the Indian context though it has been modelled after some of the best international indices to allow comparisons among cities and rank them on performance'
b"At present, Delhi's air quality is being monitored by three different agencies - Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi Pollution Control Committee and IMD"
'
Apart from the installation of GPRS in private cabs and shared taxis for women, a host of other security and punitive measures for various offences were also announced'
b"The state's new capital, to be developed near Vijayawada, would be ready by June this year according to Governor E S L Narasimhan"
These PPP projects relate to Mass Rapid Transport Systems, solid waste management, water supply, parking lots, roads, flyovers and road over bridges'
The contest is open for all citizens of India over 18 years old and the team developing the winning app in a three-stage competition will get a chance to visit the headquarters of Google in the US'
These PPP projects relate to Mass Rapid Transport Systems, solid waste management, water supply, parking lots, roads, flyovers and road over bridges'
The biggest challenge for IoT heads is to assemble an ecosystem that justifies the investment'
This follows the signing of three separate MoUs by state governments on US cooperation in developing Ajmer, Allahabad and Visakhapatnam as smart cities in January'
A 14-member Committee to revisit and redraft the Delhi Development Act 1957 has been set up under retired IAS officer Madhukar Gupta, who was also a former Vice-Chairman of DDA'
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has rationalised the capital gains tax regime for the sponsors of newly-created business structure REITs'
b"PM Narendra Modi has asked the Indian IT industry to work on pathbreaking ideas like 'cloud godowns' and 'cloud lockers' to help keep data secure"
This will enable the visitors to use their smart phones as a guide, as detailed information will be available on scanning the Quick Response (QR) codes printed on new sign boards'
The industry has welcomed some of the proposals of the Finance Minister, but bemoaned the omission of incentives to boost the sector and lack of clarity on smart cities'
These include the National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) and Modernization of Police Forces, while about 24 CSS will continue to run with a changed sharing pattern and 31 programmes will get full support of the Centre'
Huge financial investments are required to overcome the urban housing shortage, at 18.8 million units, of which 95.6 percent is in EWS/LIG segments'
The government had recently decided to increase the state share in taxes from 32 percent to 42 percent as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission'
"While the combined Europe-Middle East-Africa (EMEA) region represents the largest number of smart cities at present, within a decade Asia-Pacific will take the lead"'
The Union Railways Minister has not only promised to improve facilities at stations and in trains but also to improve the railways\xe2\x80\x99 digital interface'
Union Minister Suresh Prabhu acknowledges that Railways is in "trouble" and that the public-private-partnership (PPP) policy must change to attract investment for capacity building'
The energy giant is at present working with three major cities - Surat in Gujarat, Jakarta in Indonesia and Marikina City in the Philippines'
Newer smartphones can measure temperature, humidity and even barometric pressure. A combination of these readings could offer a secure way to log in to your computer and make passwords obsolete'
b"India aims to become one of the world's largest renewable energy markets, targeting 100,000 MW of output by 2022"
In a letter to all chief ministers, PM Narendra Modi has said the states are free to change Centrally-sponsored schemes and plan the course of their development'
It will enable commuters to have one card to act as both debit/credit card and metro smart card and prior consent of applicants will be obtained by the banks and credit card issuers for the facility before the issuance of the card'
b"Centre accepts 14th Finance Commission report that takes states' share in Union taxes up to 42 percent and will give the states an additional Rs 1.78 lakh crore in 2015-16"
Addressing the joint sitting of Parliament, President Pranab Mukherjee has said that the share of renewable energy in electricity generation is being significantly enhanced from the current 6 percent'
While NHAI awarded 1,572km of contracts during April-Nov 2014, it had set itself a target of 5,500km for FY 2015, 35% of which was earmarked for BOT segment and the rest for EPC mode'
Aluva, home of Kochi International Airport, was selected for the DFID-funded project due to its strategic location and struggle to cope with a burgeoning urban population'
b"Machine data collection, remote management and engineering analytics of parameters from 'Things' will help OEMs, industries and consumers alike"
A 1992 batch IAS officer of the Kerala cadre, he was previously handling financial markets in the Department of Economic Affairs in the Finance Ministry'
The government will develop these and is identifying property through a GPS system, as it does not want to sell land to builders and developers, according to Union Minister of Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari'
It is estimated that a whopping Rs 62,000 crore is required to improve basic amenities in the 4,041 urban areas in the country'
'
'
Though transport is a concurrent subject and falls under the ambit of both the Centre and the states, the Minister feels such taxi aggregators are not merely technology companies as they provide transport facilities'
Researchers in Barcelona, Spain, equipped more than 50 school children with smartphones that could track their location and physical activity'
It is envisaged that during the next few years, more than 200 services related to investors and businesses will be rolled-out across the country'
If the proposed smart cities are realistically planned around a base of affordable housing the form and structure of such settlements will be very different from what is currently visualised'
The National Urban Housing Scheme, aims to provide houses for all by 2022, where the construction of affordable houses would be done on public-private partnership model'
The new \xe2\x80\x98Urban and Regional Development Plans Formulation and Implementation Guidelines\xe2\x80\x99 seek to promote local and area level planning, investment planning, special purpose planning like in the case of city sanitation and mobility plans'
b"The collaboration between the Urban Development  Ministry and Bloomberg Philanthropies will help select 'Smart City' applicants who can rise up to the challenges of resource mobilisation with special abilities to carry out urban reforms"
The Ministry of Urban Development has already held consultations with states on 50% reservation for women in urban local bodies through an amendment to the Constitution'
b"About 60 percent of India's electricity comes through coal even as it has long resisted pressure to commit to any emissions targets, citing development goals"
As the supplier ecosystem for smart cities expands, established suppliers are moving into the market from the energy, transport, buildings and government sectors, while startups are addressing a range of emerging opportunities'
BIS is actively engaged in the Make in India campaign by formulating/updating standards and amendments to the 1986 BIS Act will empower the government to bring more products under mandatory certification'
The company is taking the next-gen concept further by focusing on family members\xe2\x80\x99 mental and physical conditions as well as comfortable, enjoyable stress-free lifestyles'
In November 2014, Prime Minister Modi had announced $4bn in funding for smart metering programs'
Digital India is an umbrella programme of the government comprising various projects worth about Rs 1 lakh crore to transform the country into a knowledge economy'
The Global Environment Facility is also working on an Integrated Programme on sustainable cities to develop conceptual models on integrated urban design, planning and management for resilient and sustainable development'
b"Naya Raipur, the upcoming capital, is being envisaged as a smart and electronic city and the state government is shifting focus to IT/ITeS as a part of the Central government's mission to create Digital India"
At present, renewable energy contributes only about 6.5 per cent in the electricity mix of the country'
High resolution audio-visuals will be recorded in the camera and stored in a memory card. Feeds can be seen live from the police control room through 4G technology'
Smart cities, power sector, roads, ports, railways and more: The infrastructure sector is in dire need of long-term investments, fiscal incentives and an investor-friendly atmosphere'
The Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways has said that the Centre would introduce the Inland Waterways Bill to convert 110 Indian rivers into transport channels'
b"The Noida Authority has announced an 'Intelligent Traffic Management System' comprising of an increased number of CCTV cameras, wi fi facility and e-challan system on the Noida expressway"
b"Voice recognition technology in the South Korean company's Internet connected TVs captures and transmits nearby conversations"
b"The Government has decided to substantially reduce the number of approvals and 'No Objections' required for taking up construction projects in urban areas through rationalisation"
While the central government can hand hold besides providing assistance and foreign countries can provide technical assistance, states and urban local bodies have to rise to the occasion'
At the recently-held BW Urban Conclave, Dr. Mangu Singh \xe2\x80\x93 MD DMRC \xe2\x80\x93 talked about the Delhi Metro, its hits & misses and questions he has to answer everywhere he goes. Here are the excerpts from a panel discussion on \xe2\x80\x9cThe Challenge of Building Rapid Transport Networks\xe2\x80\x9d'
b"Centre will shift from 'one size fits all' to a better match between schemes and needs of states"
The new monitoring system will also facilitate easy communication between various offices and allow a user to track the status of a bill'
Transport is among the major challenges that Indian cities face, given the ever increasing influx of people'
The beginning of energy cost reduction measures being taken up by the Railways, such contracts at key load centers will enable it to generate significant savings'
The platform is being created for individuals, companies, students, NGOs and others to develop and deploy security applications that may be  useful to people'
An IAS officer of the 1979 batch from the Kerala cadre he takes over from Anil Goswami'
In state capitals and in city halls, it is time to sound the alarm bell: the future is calling. A view from the US'
The 1981 batch Haryana cadre officer takes over from Shankar Aggarwal'
'
b"Accenture's annual technology forecast highlights 5 technology trends affecting tomorrow\xe2\x80\x99s digital businesses"
Nicholas Brusson, co-founder and CEO of BlaBlaCar, talks to BW about its carpooling service, now available in India'
At end of two-day consultation, suggest two-stage selection of cities, fixed tenures for Mayors, municipal cadres and diverse financing models'
The Urban Development Minister says that building smart cities is a daunting a task but doable; seeks to motivate states'
Cyber-resilient smart cities can be created through security intelligence and big data'
'
'
Public meetings have their place \xe2\x80\x94 and they have their drawbacks. More governments are relying on useful apps to harvest ideas and feedback. A view from the US'
In his State of the Union, the US president proposed expanding a program that encourages state and local governments to pay for infrastructure projects with PPPs'
Once tightly controlled by commercial publishers, legal codes are becoming more accessible online, thanks to the open data movement'
As data-driven services and programs have grown, so has the data disparity between the rich and the poor'
Recent events in Ferguson and New York City demonstrate that life is better in communities whose leaders know how to resolve political disputes'
Much can be done on both sides to prevent the kind of tragedies that have ignited protests across the US'
What seems like a growing trend of overdiagnosing corruption has negative consequences for not only public officials but the people they serve'
A transportation network where cars and trucks no longer need drivers seems tantalizingly close but what of the upcoming challenges?'
With pedestrian and cyclist deaths on the rise, US Transportation Chief Anthony Foxx has challenged mayors to make the roads safer for both'
b"A new study finds a link between how much families spend on housing and children's intellectual ability"
b"Some US cities think the key to getting citizens to trust in and see the value of government again is developing civic technology that's proven to work"
A recent survey in the US revealed how local governments are using technology (both new and old) to engage citizens and improve performance'
Modern metering systems can save money and make water management more efficient. Local officials are finding ways to overcome obstacles to putting them in place'
Promising new approaches have emerged to overcome rules that inhibit the sharing of information critical to evidence-based policymaking'
The two countries held extensive talks on smart city development and agreed to set up city-wise task forces for making Vizag, Allahabad and Ajmer smart cities'
'
'
The NDA government is currently working on a mission to create 100 Smart Cities across the country'
Government has adopted a public stand with telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad stating that internet is for the masses'
b"The new market is a key component in the government's plan to meet a target of limiting climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions in 2020 to 30 per cent below current levels"
What to expect from the Indian IT industry in 2015 as it readies for a quantum leap'
Sony is only the most recent case of a major company with dedicated security teams, facing hacking'
Nineteen days. That is what it took for a government-appointed expert committee to prepare the first draft of India\xe2\x80\x99s National Intellectual Property (IP) policy'
India wants foreign firms to lead investments to boost solar energy capacity many-fold'
The journey towards a new energy architecture needs a long-term and integrated-policy approach'
b"Enterprises shouldn't let mobile security be their blind spot"
If the statistics in the report are correct, the share of US companies hampered by restrictive Indian policies has risen from 18.8% to 26.1% between 2007 and 2013'
'
'
India has leapfrogged technologies by mandating 2FA much ahead of the rest of the world'
Press Note No. 10 of 2014 has really liberalised investment in construction development projects'
Translation of the vision of a skilled India into reality needs legal changes as well as the adoption of globally successful models'
GST has the potential to enhance GDP growth by 1.5 per cent and once rolled out, will make India an investment hotspot'
It is going to be harder and harder to stay ahead of the bad guys in data breach cases'
Spending on technology services will rise, and for IT services companies, the India-linked opportunity will begin to look more interesting'
b"Tata Tele's Elango Thambiah takes a look at the significant trends that will shape mobility in 2015"
New cities may be the flavour of the season, but older urban clusters need attention too'
IT service providers can survive by transforming themselves in the cloud era'
Companies are spearheading the effort to better understand and deliver on the Indian consumer\xe2\x80\x99s needs for science-based and innovative products'
A revitalisation of regulatory institutions is essential to break down entry barriers and encourage entrepreneurship and competition'
To attract foreign investments in the real estate sector, the government has allowed 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route'
The question is how to make in India, because across the world, manufacturing is at crossroads'
Focus on showcasing \xe2\x80\x98Intelligence of Things\xe2\x80\x99 powered by frugal engineering'
The transformation from a \xe2\x80\x9cnormal\xe2\x80\x9d city to a \xe2\x80\x9csmart city\xe2\x80\x9d is more evolution than revolution'
Governing bodies and municipal corporations could see a staggering change for the better by adopting mobility'
It is the time for forward-thinking developers and landlords to prepare themselves to lead, rather than follow, the change.'
'
The public sector construction major has committed to time frames to attend to complaints in 53 cities'
Atlas of Cities is a guide to the global hubs that shape our lives in an increasingly interconnected world'
A government advisory firm presents its top 10 imperatives and predictions to help local governments stay abreast of smart city business and technology requirements, the Internet of Things and resilience among them.'
